Letter of Determination 

February 25, 2022 

Nick Colla 
1561 Powell Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear Nick Colla: 

2021-010159ZAD 
1 Ferry Building Suites 201 & 301 
9900/274 
C-2 Community Business Zoning District 
Waterfront 1 Special Use District (SUD) 
Linda Ajello Hoagland – linda.ajellohoagland@sfgov.org  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1 Ferry Building, 
Suites 201 and 301. The request seeks a determination as to whether or not a “nighttime entertainment use” would 
be permitted to operate in conjunction with the existing general office use within the same floor area.  

According to your initial and supplemental request letters, the approximately 39,000 square foot tenant space is 
currently occupied by Shack15, which is a co-working/social space designed to provide a unique platform for 
connecting entrepreneurial communities in the technology, software and data sciences. Shack15 serves as a hub 
for cross-disciplinary entrepreneurs, start-up founders, and innovators from around the world to build the next 
generation of startups and products aimed at tackling issues at both the local and global level. 

Shack15 currently offers dedicated workspaces, meeting rooms, and lounge areas to its office members. Shack 15 
also  provides  office  members  with  access  to  café  and  restaurant  areas  at  the  premises,  including  food  and 
alcoholic beverage service, where it occasionally provides live entertainment by pianists, DJs, dance performers, 
painters,  sculptors,  and  other  various  arts  performers.  However,  with  the  entirety  of  the  premises  currently 
authorized solely for “office” use and “Type B” Building Code occupancy, Shack15 must obtain a special event 
permit from the San Francisco Fire Department (SFFD) each and every occasion that it provides live entertainment 
or serves food and beverage to more than 49 attendees. Because the premises currently has an occupancy count 
of more than 700 persons for office use, it is difficult to determine if or when more than 49 of Shack15’s office 
members will flow into the café or restaurant area during live performance events. Additionally, because SFFD 
policy  limits  special  event  permits  to  12  per  year  at  the  premises,  it  is  not  feasible  for  Shack15  to  continue 
operating at the Premises without adding Nighttime Entertainment as an authorized use and changing occupancy 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nick Colla 
1561 Powell Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 

February 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1 Ferry Building, Suites 201 & 301 

from Type B to Type A-2. By doing so, Shack15 would be eligible to apply for “Place of Assembly and Place of 
Entertainment” permits, which would enable it to host live performance events and serve food and beverage to 
its office members without the need to limit attendance to 49 occupants or repeatedly apply for special event 
permits. As such, Shack15 is now exploring the possibility of adding “nighttime entertainment” to portions of the 
premises as an accompanying use to the existing office use. This would enable Shack15 to use approximately 
6,820 square feet, or approximately 17.5%, of ”flex office” space, to host live performance events and serve food 
and beverages to its office members in compliance with Building and Fire Code regulations.  

Planning Code Section 102 defines Nighttime Entertainment as follows: 

Entertainmentʐ Nighttimeʏ A  Retail  Entertainment,  Arts  and  Recreation  Use  that  includes  dance  halls, 
discotheques, nightclubs, private clubs, and other similar evening-oriented entertainment activities which 
require  dance  hall  keeper  police  permits  or  Place  of  Entertainment  police  permits,  as  defined  in 
Section 1060 of  the  Police  Code,  which  are  not  limited  to  non-amplified  live  entertainment,  including 
Restaurants  and  Bars  which  present  such  activities,  but  shall  not  include  any  Arts  Activity,  any  theater 
performance space which does not serve alcoholic beverages during performances, or any temporary uses 
permitted  pursuant  to  Sections 205 through 205.4 of  this  Code. This  use  is  also  subject  to  the  controls  in 
Section 202.11. 

The subject property is located in the C-2 Community Business Zoning District, which allows Entertainment and 
Recreation Uses, including “nighttime entertainment,” as a principally permitted use. However, the property is also 
located  within  the  Waterfront  1  SUD,  which  allows  that  any  “use  in  the  district  established  by  Section  201 
applicable to the particular property involved shall be permitted as a principal use if the use is identified as an 
acceptable, existing, or interim land use in the Waterfront Land Use Plan adopted by the Port Commission.” 

While it appears that Nighttime Entertainment is considered an “acceptable” land use by the Waterfront Land Use 
Plan as an “Assembly and Entertainment” use, you should consult with the Port of San Francisco to confirm the 
use  is  indeed  consistent  with  that  plan.  You  should  also  consult  with  the  Port  regarding  the  specific  approval 
process to legally establish the Nighttime Entertainment use. You can access the Waterfront Land Use Plan through 
the following link: https://sfport.com/files/2022-02/Waterfront%20Land%20Use%20Plan.pdf 

Regarding whether or not the Planning Code allows two or more uses to operate in conjunction with each other 
in  the  same  space,  the  Planning  Code  does  not  explicitly  state  either  way.  However,  it  has  been  consistently 
interpreted  to  allow  more  than  one  use  to  be  established  and  operate  within  the  same  physical  space.  This 
interpretation was discussed in detail during the Planning Commission review of the Flexible Retail use in 2018.  

Therefore, based on the information above, it is my determination that the Planning Code principally permits a 
Nighttime Entertainment use to be established and operate at the subject property in conjunction with the existing 
general office and restaurant uses as long as the Port determines that Nighttime Entertainment use at this location 
is consistent with the Waterfront Land Use Plan. Please note that such use would also require approval from the 
San Francisco Entertainment Commission for a “Place of Entertainment.” 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nick Colla 
1561 Powell Street 
San Francisco, CA 94133 

February 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1 Ferry Building, Suites 201 & 301 

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Hudson One Ferry Operating LP 
Ming Yeung, Assistant Deputy Director, Planning & Environment, Port of San Francisco 
Neighborhood Groups 
Linda Ajello Hoagland, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
