Letter of Determination 

December 22, 2022 

Genna Yarkin 
50 California Street, Suite 2800  
San Francisco, CA 94111 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

2022-008696ZAD 
1011 03rd Street – Mission Rock Building A 
8719B/002 
Mission Rock Mixed Use (MR-MU)  
240-Mission Rock, 60-Mission Rock 

                                                      Mission Rock Special Use District (SUD) 
Staff Contact:  

Xinyu Liang – Xinyu.Liang@sfgov.org  

Dear Genna Yarkin, 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1011 03rd Street 
(Mission  Rock  Building  A).  The  request  seeks  a  determination  as  to  whether  the  proposed  use  by  Capgemini 
America, Inc. (“Capgemini”) would be permitted within the MR-MU Zoning District, the Mission Rock SUD,  and 
Mission Rock Design Controls. 

According to your request letter, Capgemini seeks to rent approximately 46,034 square feet of space on the 2nd and 
3rd floors of the building. The proposed activities include, but are not limited to: consulting services, industrial 
design, prototype modeling, product development, and laboratories for engineering research and development.  

Per Planning Code Section 249.80(e), “Commercial Uses means all Institutional Uses and Non-Retail Sales and 
Services, but excluding Hospital, Commercial Storage, Wholesale Sales, and Wholesale Storage.” Further,  
Planning Code Section 102 defines Non-Retail Sales and Services Use as “a Commercial Use category that 
includes Uses that involve the sale of goods or services to other businesses rather than the end user, or that does 
not provide for direct sales to the consumer on site. Uses in this category include, but are not limited to: Business 
Services, Catering, Commercial Storage, Design Professional, General Office, Laboratory, Life Science, Non-Retail 
Professional Service, Trade Office, Wholesale Sales, and Wholesale Storage.” 

Given the information provided, the proposed use may fall under one or multiple of the following use 
subcategories, such as Design Professional, Laboratory, General Office, etc. All of the proposed uses fall within 
the definition of Commercial Use, which is permitted at this site, provided that at least 60% of the gross square 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genna Yarkin 
50 California Street, Suite 2800  
San Francisco, CA 9411 

December 22, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1011 03rd Street – Mission Rock Building A 

footage of the Buildings above the ground floor in each Block consists of Residential Use, per Planning Code 
Section 249.80 (f) and the Mission Rock Design Controls.  

Therefore, based on the information above, it is my determination that the Planning Code principally permits 
Commercial Use at the subject property. Additionally, all of the proposed uses fall within the definition of 
Commercial Use, and therefore would be permitted, although any final determination of permitted uses would 
require a specific proposal to ensure full, overall compliance with the Planning Code and Mission Rock Design 
Controls. Please also note that this site is located within the jurisdiction of the Port of San Francisco. Please also 
consult with the Port regarding the specific approval process to legally establish the proposed uses.  

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Ryan Wassum, Senior Planner, Port of San Francisco 
Neighborhood Groups 
Xinyu Liang, Senior Planner 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
