Letter of Determination 

March 25, 2022 

Peter Ziblatt 
Pelosi Ziblatt Law Group  
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2022-000093ZAD 
1145 Polk Street (aka 1201 Sutter Street)  
0691/001 
Polk Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) 
65-A Height and Bulk District  
Carly Grob – (628) 652-7532 or carly.grob@sfgov.org 

Dear Peter Ziblatt: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1145 Polk Street 
(aka 1201 Sutter Street). The property is occupied by a mixed-use development with 54 dwelling units, which 
recently completed construction but has not received a Certificate of Final Completion (CFC). The request seeks 
to confirm that the project may change tenure from rental to ownership without requiring Planning Commission 
approval and to determine the method of pricing and the sale process for the on-site affordable units (also 
referred to “Below Market Rate” or “BMR” units).  

On January 18, 2018, the Planning Department (“Department”) approved the demolition of a two-story building 
and construction of a six-story mixed-use building with 54 dwelling units (3 2-bedroom units and 51 studios) and 
approximately 7,500 square feet of commercial uses at the ground and basement levels (“Project”). The project is 
subject to the requirements of the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program (Planning Code Section 415 et. seq 
– “Inclusionary Program”). The project elected to satisfy the Inclusionary Program requirements by providing 
14.5% of the total units in the project, or 8 units, as affordable units on-site.  

On October 4, 2019, the project sponsor recorded a Notice of Special Restrictions (“BMR NSR”) that designated 
the location of the affordable units and specified that the project was rental tenure (Instrument No. 
2019K840078). After the BMR NSR was recorded, the project sponsor worked with the Mayor’s Office of Housing 
and Community Development (“MOHCD”) to determine the affordable rents and market the affordable units, in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

accordance with the Inclusionary Affordable Housing Program Monitoring and Procedures Manual (“Procedures 
Manual”).  

On November 24, 2020, the project sponsor filed Building Permit No. 2020.1124.9571 to convert all 51 studio 
units in the project into one-bedroom units. The resulting unit mix would be 51 1-bedroom units and 3 2-
bedroom units.  

On December 7, 2020, MOHCD held a lottery attended by the project sponsor for the project through the City’s 
DAHLIA portal, which generated a ranked list of 2,557 households who applied to rent the 8 affordable units. 

On December 8, 2020, the project sponsor contacted the MOHCD to request that lease-up be paused, as the they 
was exploring a change in tenure from rental to ownership.  

On February 26, 2021, DBI issued a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (TCO) for the project, but it expired in 
May 2021  and was not renewed by DBI. The Planning Code states that affordable units cannot be vacant for 
more than 60 days. The MOHCD BMR marketing and pricing process is different for rental projects and ownership 
projects, so changing tenure requires re-starting these processes, which take longer than 60 days. TCO has not 
been reissued to avoid violating the Planning Code.   

On September 30, 2021, the project sponsor submitted a Project Application (“application”) to switch the 
method of compliance with the Inclusionary Program from on-site to fee. The application was deemed accepted 
on October 19, 2021. The item was scheduled for the Planning Commission hearing on December 9, 2021, and it 
was withdrawn during the hearing. The Commission discussed the item as an informational item but did not 
take any action because the application had been withdrawn.  

On January 5, 2022, the project sponsor submitted this request for a Letter of Determination to formally change 
the Project tenure from rental to ownership in accordance with the Procedures Manual and as further discussed 
below.  

Currently, the 8 affordable units are designated as Rental Units. The Project has been constructed but has not 
received a CFC. The CFC is being held by the Department of Building Inspection (“DBI”) because the project is 
out of compliance with Section 415.9(a), which requires all affordable housing requirements of Planning Code 
Section 415 be satisfied before DBI issues the first Certificate of Occupancy. The project sponsor has not yet 
satisfied their obligations under Section 415. The City has worked in good faith to address issues related to the 
change in tenure since the project sponsor elected to convert from rental to ownership in December 2020.  

Process to Change Tenure 
Effective January 1, 2020, and further amended in 2021, “The Housing Crisis Act of 2019” (“HCA”) establishes a 
statewide “housing emergency” until January 1, 2030. During the housing emergency, the HCA suspends certain 
restrictions on the development of new housing and expedites the permitting of housing. If an applicant submits 
a complete development application within 180 days of submitting a preliminary application, then the zoning, 
design, subdivision, and fee requirements in effect at the time the preliminary application was submitted remain 
in effect for the remainder of the entitlement and permitting process. The project has an active development 
application and a Preliminary Application was submitted on December 14, 2021. Therefore, this letter references 
the Planning Code regulations in place on that date.  

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

The conversion from rental tenure to ownership tenure is not prohibited by the Planning Code. The Code does 
not provide any specific process to convert from rental to ownership. Planning Code Section 415.8(b)(5) states:  

For any units permitted to be Owned Units under the Program, the MOHCD shall require that affordable 
Rental Units permitted by the Commission to be converted to Owned Units must satisfy the requirements of 
the Procedures Manual, as amended from time to time… Upon conversion to ownership, the units are 
subject to the resale and other restrictions of this Program for the life of the project, as defined in the Notice 
of Special Restrictions or conditions of approval for the Project. 

The Procedures Manual is adopted by the Planning Commission and provides procedures for the monitoring 
and enforcement of the Inclusionary Program. The Procedures Manual sets forth the procedures and 
requirements for converting an affordable rental unit to an affordable ownership unit, and it does not have any 
restrictions related to the timing of the conversion. A project sponsor can convert at any time during the 
construction of the project or during the life of the project.  

The Procedures Manual states that “[w]hen authorized by local and State laws and the Project’s conditions of 
approval, and the Planning Department through a Zoning Administrator Letter of Determination process, a BMR 
Rental Unit may be converted to BMR Ownership Unit.” This Letter of Determination satisfies the requirement in 
the Procedures Manual to initiate the conversion of the affordable rental units to the affordable ownership units. 
Neither State Law nor the project’s conditions of approval include any additional restrictions related to 
conversion. Therefore, the conversion may be approved administratively, and the project sponsor may sell the 
affordable units to qualified households. The project will be required to complete a revised BMR NSR to record 
the conversion to ownership prior to the initial sale of the 8 affordable units.  

Pricing Affordable Units  
Planning Code Section 415.8(b)(5) states:   

[T]he units shall be sold at restricted sales prices to households meeting the income qualifications specified 
in the Notice of Special Restrictions or conditions of approval, with a right of first refusal for the occupant(s) 
of such units at the time of conversion. If the current tenant qualifies for and purchases the unit, the unit 
shall be sold at a sales price corresponding to the affordability level required for rental units or to the 
affordability level for the specific tenant household, whichever is higher, with a maximum allowable 
qualifying income level up to 120% of AMI. 

This section directs the owner to heed the affordability levels in the Notice of Special Restrictions unless existing 
tenants have an income greater than the specified level (up to 120% AMI). NSR No. 2019K840078 restricts the 
affordable units at 55% AMI and so the DAHLIA listing invited applications for these units at 55% AMI to apply. 
While there are no existing tenants, the rental applicant list represents households that have standing to occupy 
these units. Planning Code Section 415.8(b)(5) also states: 

 If the unit is sold to anyone else, the sales price shall correspond to the affordability level required for 
Owned Units. Upon conversion to ownership, the units are subject to the resale and other restrictions of this 
Program for the life of the project, as defined in the Notice of Special Restrictions or conditions of approval 
for the Project. 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

This section provides that any unsold units, following an offering to existing tenants, shall be offered to 
households at a sales price of 90% AMI.  

Following the application period on the City’s DAHLIA online portal, the project completed a lottery, which 
generated a ranked list of 2,557 rental households to occupy the 8 affordable units on-site. But the project 
sponsor did not proceed to rent the affordable units to the households on the list. The Project Sponsor did not 
complete the entire rental lease-up process because they elected to change to ownership tenure following the 
lottery. The Planning Code and Procedures Manual provide guidance on how units converting from rental to 
ownership shall be priced, but do not provide any guidance on how to price units following a lottery, but prior to 
initial rental. The affordable units have been offered, but not occupied at the time of conversion, which presents 
a unique scenario regarding the affordable units’ AMI restrictions. If occupied, the affordable units would be 
made available to the existing tenants, and the sales prices would be calculated at 55% AMI. If conversion was 
initiated prior to listing on DAHLIA as a rental opportunity, the sales price would have been calculated at 90% 
AMI.  

Based on the upfront costs to accessing homeownership, even under the Inclusionary Affordable Housing 
Program, the number of ranked households who would be eligible and interested in purchasing the affordable 
units at 55% AMI may be a fraction of the overall applicant pool. Giving a right of first refusal to even a small 
percentage of the ranked households would be significantly more time consuming than if the 8 units were 
occupied, as the project sponsor would need to offer each unit to multiple households earning 55% AMI instead 
of just one existing tenant.  

Therefore, half of the affordable units (4 units) will be made available to the households ranked in the lottery, 
while the other half (4 units) will follow the standard pricing for ownership, which means they will be sold to 
qualified first-time homebuyers with a sales price set at 90% AMI. Providing 4 units at 55% AMI honors the 
affordability level of the DAHLIA listing for which the ranked households applied and provides an opportunity for 
them to pursue an affordable ownership unit. Keeping the remaining four units at 90% AMI provides more 
certainty in the sales process than exhausting the rental list before increasing the sales prices.  

Applicability of the Procedures Manual Requirements for Conversion 
Planning Code Section 415.8(b)(5) also defers to the Procedures Manual for conversion procedures, including 
but not limited to price: 

For any units permitted to be Owned Units under the Program, the MOHCD shall require that affordable 
Rental Units permitted by the Commission to be converted to Owned Units must satisfy the requirements of 
the Procedures Manual, as amended from time to time. 

In addition to pricing requirements described above, the Procedures Manual includes additional requirements 
for converting an affordable rental unit to an affordable ownership unit. The requirements are numbered below 
for clarity.  

1.  The tenant(s) of the affordable rental unit have at least one year from the time of official notice from the 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

Project Owner to exercise the first right to purchase.  

2.  The affordable rental unit must be in good physical condition as evidenced by a home inspection paid 

for by the owner and performed by a state-licensed and independent third party. 

3.  The existing household in the affordable rental unit must be a qualified buyer under the Program and 
the gross annual Household income of the BMR Renter at the time of purchase shall not exceed the 
Income level designated in the NSR.  

4. 

If the existing BMR Renter decides not to purchase the BMR unit, the Project Owner shall provide a 
relocation allowance to the current BMR Renter that complies with relocation allowances required under 
the San Francisco Rent Ordinance. 

In the absence of any formal procedure as to how to treat the households who ranked in the lottery, the 
conversion procedures in the Procedures Manual set forth the clearest framework for how to establish the price 
of the affordable units as further described below.  

Requirement Nos. 2 and 4 in the list above would not apply to the Project. The BMR Units are newly constructed 
and have never been occupied. It is not necessary to conduct a home inspection with a state-licensed and 
independent third party to confirm that they are in good condition. The affordable units are not occupied, so 
there are no instances where any tenants will be relocated. Therefore, the requirement to provide relocation 
payments does not apply. 

Requirement Nos. 1 and 3 from the list above would apply, except that they are modified as follows to reflect the 
ranked lottery list instead of the existing BMR tenants:  

1.  The tenant(s) of the affordable rental unit have at least one year from the time of official notice from the 
Project Owner to exercise the first right to purchase. The households on the ranked lottery list will have 
one year to become qualified (through completing MOHCD-required Homebuyer Education classes and 
obtaining a loan preapproval) and enter a contract to purchase the affordable units. The project sponsor 
shall maintain records of their engagement with the applicants on the lottery list and shall be prepared 
to provide those records to MOHCD upon request. MOHCD will confirm that the 55% AMI unit offering 
was done in good faith in accordance with this Letter of Determination before re-listing any units not 
under contract at 90% AMI.  

3.  The recorded BMR NSR stipulates that the project is a rental project, and all the affordable units are 

studio units. The Procedures Manual requires the project to sell units to existing renters at the rent levels 
set in the BMR NSR. The existing BMR Renter Household must be a qualified buyer under the Program 
and the gross annual Household income of the BMR Renter at the time of purchase shall not exceed the 
Income level designated in the NSR. Applicants who are ranked on the lottery list shall have the ability to 
qualify to purchase the unit at the AMI stipulated in the BMR NSR, or 55% AMI priced for a studio unit. 

Applicability of other Procedures Manual Requirements 
Finally, the determinations detailed below are germane to this circumstance for which guidance is required to 
proceed with the sale processes for the 55% AMI studio units and 90% AMI 1-bedroom units respectively:  

5  

 
 
  
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

•  Qualifying AMI for 55% AMI studio units: BMR ownership units approved under the same era of Section 
415 have a maximum allowable income to qualify to purchase (qualifying AMI) of 100% AMI for a pricing 
level of 90%. Given that deeper affordability of the 55% AMI studio units, 60% is an appropriate 
qualifying AMI, roughly the proportion of 100% AMI:90% AMI. As a result, the rental applicants list will be 
eligible to qualify for a 55% AMI studio unit if their household income does not exceed 60% AMI.  

•  Allocation of affordable parking spaces: The question of how to allocate dedicated affordable parking 

spaces is not addressed in the conversion procedures described in Procedures Manual. In new projects, 
regardless of tenure, the Procedures Manual provides that parking spaces would be offered to buyers 
based on the lottery rank and order. However, given the framework identified above, one parking space 
would be allocated to the 4 55% AMI studio units with priority given in the order households enter a 
purchase contract, and 1 parking space would be allocated the 4 90% AMI 1-bedroom units in lottery 
rank and order.  

•  Pricing of BMRs unit with parking: The Procedures Manual states that the parking price for a BMR 

ownership unit shall be 10 AMI percentage points above the maximum income level specified in the 
NSR. However, given that 55% AMI is deeper affordability level than the rest of the City’s BMR ownership 
portfolio, 10 percentage points is not appropriate to expect that any applicant households could both 
afford the space and remain eligible within the qualifying AMI. Therefore, if an applicant of a 55% AMI 
studio unit would like to purchase the unit with the parking space and it is still available, the unit with 
the parking space will be priced together at 60% AMI. The 90% AMI 1-bedroom unit with parking space 
will be priced at 100% AMI in accordance with the Procedures Manual.  

Pricing the Affordable Units - Process 
Planning Code Section 415.6 requires the affordable units to be marketed at the same time as the market rate 
units. The project has not received a CFC because the project sponsor has not satisfied the requirements of the 
Inclusionary Program. For the project to come into compliance and for the Department to authorize the release 
of the CFC, the project sponsor must complete the following:  

•  For the 4 units to be sold to the households who have qualified for rental units through the lottery, the 
project sponsor must hold an information session to provide additional information on how the 
households that are ranked in the lottery can proceed with qualifying for and purchasing an affordable 
unit. The information session must be facilitated by a HUD-approved housing counseling agency that is 
familiar with the MOHCD process for qualifying potential buyers. MOHCD will direct DBI to release the 
CFC for the project following the information session.  

The project sponsor must provide the households on the ranked lottery list at least 2 weeks from the 
information session to express interest in pursuing a unit. Applicants have 1 year from the end of the 2-
week period to demonstrate that they qualify for a for-sale unit and enter into a sales contract to 
purchase a unit on a first-come, first-served basis. If there are units that are not in contract after 1 year of 
marketing to the households on the ranked lottery list, or if the list of interested households has been 
exhausted, then the units priced at 55% AMI may be priced at 90% AMI and offered to the general public 
on a first-come, first-served basis. MOHCD shall monitor the sales of these units to ensure the ranked 

6  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Peter Ziblatt 
244 Kearny Street, 9th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

March 25, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1145 Polk St (aka 1201 Sutter St) 

lottery list is properly engaged. The project sponsor must have MOHCD confirm and verify any units that 
remain available and eligible for re-pricing as 1-bedroom units at 90% AMI.  

•  For the 4 units to be sold at 90% AMI, the project sponsor must complete the marketing requirements of 
new ownership units, as defined in the Procedures Manual. This means that the project sponsor will 
complete a lottery for the 90% AMI units. If there are any units that are not sold to the rental lottery list, 
then they must be made available at 90% AMI on a first-come, first-served basis in accordance with the 
Procedures Manual.  

As mentioned above, the project sponsor is also required to record a new Notice of Special Restrictions that 
reflects the change in tenure prior to the initial sale of the first of the affordable units identifying the tenure, unit 
type of the units, and pricing information (AMI level) of the units at that time. Once the project sponsor has either 
exhausted the list of interested households from the rental lottery, or has sold all eight affordable units, the 
Department will prepare a second revision to the Notice of Special Restrictions for the project sponsor to record 
the final unit mix, final mix of 55% AMI and 90% AMI units, and initial sales prices.  

Although the City will release the CFC following an information session, the project sponsor is still required to 
market and sell the affordable units at the same time as the market rate units. Delays in the marketing process 
may result in enforcement action pursuant to Article 1.7 of the Planning Code.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Carly Grob, Planner 
Maria Benjamin, Deputy Director, MOHCD 
Alea Gage, Inclusionary Housing Policy Manager, MOHCD 

7  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
