Letter of Determination 

September 26, 2023 

Allan E. Low 
Perkins Coie 
505 Howard Street, Suite 1000 
San Francisco, CA  94105 
ALow@perkinscoie.com 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2023-006795ZAD 
1241 Stockton Street 
0160/003 
CRNC (Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial) 
Xinyu Liang – 628-652-7316 or Xinyu.liang@sfgov.org  

Dear Allan E. Low; 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property 1241 Stockton 
Street. The request seeks confirmation of the following: (1) Cathay Bank’s proposed use of the entire building 
for Financial Services is permitted as a legal nonconforming use, and (2) as a continuation of the entire building 
for Financial Services, Cathay Bank’s proposed use will not require a Conditional Use Authorization (CUA).  

This request involves three separate, but related Planning Code issues: 1) the change of Formula Retail 
operators, 2) the nonconforming Financial Service use, and 3) the nonresidential use size provisions for 
Chinatown Mixed Use Districts.  

Formula Retail 
Planning Code Section 178(c)(3) provides the thresholds for when a change of Formula Retail operator requires a 
CUA. In this case, the existing Formula Retail operator (East West Bank) occupied the subject lot prior to the 
adoption of Formula Retail controls, and therefore never obtained a CUA. Per Section 178(c)(3)(E), a CUA is 
required for a new Formula Retail operator when the existing Formula Retail use did not previously obtain a CUA. 
Therefore, the proposed change of operator from East West Bank to Cathay Bank will require a CUA.  

Nonconforming Financial Services Use 
The subject lot is in the Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial zoning district and occupied by a 
Financial Services use within the entirety of the existing building. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 812, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Allan E. Low 
505 Howard Street, Suite 1000 
San Francisco, CA  94105 

September 26, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1241 Stockton Street 

Financial Services use is a conditional use on the first floor and below and is not permitted above the first floor. 
As such, the Financial Services use on the second floor and above is a legal nonconforming use.  

Per Planning Code Section 181, nonconforming uses are generally permitted to continue if they are not enlarged, 
intensified, or extended. This proposal is to continue the Financial Services use within the same area and context 
above the first floor. Therefore, the change of operator from East West Bank to Cathay Bank will not be a change 
of nonconforming use or an enlargement, intensification, or extension of the existing nonconforming Financial 
Services use above the first floor, and hence is permitted.  

Use Size 
Planning Code Section 121.4 regulates nonresidential use sizes within Chinatown Mixed Use Districts. More 
specifically, the Chinatown Residential Neighborhood Commercial District prohibits use sizes larger than 4,000 
square feet. Additionally, changes of use within noncomplying use sizes trigger more restrictive controls 
regarding which new uses may be permitted and if such noncomplying use size may be maintained. Per the 
Planning Department case report for Case No. DR80.3 submitted with your request, the total occupied area of 
the building is 4,200 square feet, which is a noncomplying use size in this district (please note that use controls 
rely on Gross Floor Area, although that area is not provided for the subject building/use).  

This proposal is to change Formula Retail operators, but to maintain the underlying Financial Services use. 
Additionally, the proposal is not to expand the existing use size. As such, it is my determination that the proposal 
is not a change of use that will trigger the controls of Planning Code Section 121.4, and therefore the 
noncomplying use size may remain.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Xinyu Liang, Planner 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
