Letter of Determination 

November 16, 2022 
Daniel Robinson, AIA 
479 9th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2022-005447ZAD 
1310 Junipero Serra Blvd 
7380/005, 034, and 036 
RH-1(D) (Residential-House, One Family Detached Dwellings) 
Ryan Balba – 628-652-7331, Ryan.Balba@sfgov.org   

Dear Daniel Robinson: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1310 Junipero 
Serra Boulevard (Property), which consists of 3 contiguous lots under single ownership. The request seeks 
multiple determinations related to the large and atypical shape of the Property, the historic and legal use of the 
Property, and a potential development project on the Property. Per your request letter, the intention is to 
consolidate a series of maintenance and facilities buildings throughout the Property into a single building. A 
proposed 20,000 square-foot single story industrial building will house administration offices for the 
maintenance staff, a repair shop for maintenance of vehicles and equipment, sprayers, mowers, golf carts, etc., 
an above ground fueling station for gasoline equipment, and staff break room and lockers/bathrooms. The 
existing Golf Shop and Historic Clubhouse on block/lot 7380/005 are to remain unchanged.  

Your specific questions, and the associated determinations, are as follows:  

1.  Please confirm that the current primary use as a golf course is the legal use of the Property. 

As noted in your request letter, the current use has been on the Property since 1915, prior to the adoption of 
a Planning Code. Planning Code Section 102 defines an Open Recreation Area as: 

A Non-Commercial Entertainment, Arts and Recreation Use that is not publicly owned which is not 
screened from public view, has no structures other than those necessary and incidental to the open land  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daniel Robinson, AIA 
479 9th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

November 16, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1310 Junipero Serra Boulevard 

use, is not operated as a gainful business, and is devoted to outdoor recreation such as golf, tennis, or 
riding. 

Supplemental documentation was submitted to confirm that the San Francisco Golf Club is not operated as 
a gainful business, but instead is a nonprofit organization. Therefore, it is my determination that the current 
golf course use falls within the definition of an Open Recreation Area.  

2.  The Property is in an RH-1(D) zoning district that was created after the existence of the San Francisco Golf 
Club’s property extents and while the main use is defined as an Open Recreation Area, which is now 
conditionally allowed within this district, would this new accessory supporting building be allowed as an 
accessory use to the existing recreational use? 

Per Planning Code Section 209.1, an Open Recreation Area is conditionally permitted in the RH-1(D) zoning 
district. The activities proposed to be housed within the new support building referenced above are either 
part of the primary use itself or a permitted accessory use per Planning Code Sections 204 and 204.2. The 
proposed project will be subject to Section 178(c), which states that a permitted conditional use may not be 
significantly altered, enlarged, or intensified, except upon approval of a new conditional use application.  

There are multiple Zoning Administrator interpretations regarding what is considered a significant alteration, 
enlargement, or intensification, but the following interpretation may be most applicable to this project:  

The term “significantly” is not defined in the Code and is therefore subject to the Zoning Administrator’s 
interpretation. The list below provides examples of those proposals which are significant and therefore 
require a conditional use authorization and those which are not significant. 

Enlargements that are significant: 
   -   Expansion of an existing establishment into an adjacent storefront that had been occupied by a 
nonconforming use in a different use category. 
   -   Expansion of more than 25% of the floor area or more than 500 square feet, whichever is less. 
   -   Expansion of an extraordinarily large development of more than 500 square feet, regardless of the 
percentage of the floor area. 
   -   Expansion of floor area in kitchens shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. 
Intensifications that are significant: 
   -   Exchange of a No. 47 ABC license (on-sale full bar with food service mandatory and minors permitted) 
for a No. 48 ABC license (on-sale full bar with food service optional and minors not permitted). 

Enlargements that are NOT significant: 
   -   Expansion up to 25% of the floor area or 500 square feet, whichever is less. 
   -   Expansion of an extraordinarily large development up to 500 square feet, regardless of the percentage 
of the floor area. 
   -   Expansion of floor area in kitchens shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. 
Intensifications that are NOT significant: 
   -   An addition of kitchen equipment and/or menu items to an existing restaurant. 
   -   Exchange of a No. 42 ABC license (on-sale beer and wine bar) for a No. 48 ABC license (on sale full bar 
with food service optional and minors not permitted). 

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Daniel Robinson, AIA 
479 9th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

November 16, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1310 Junipero Serra Boulevard 

Based on the information above, it is my determination that a Conditional Use Authorization will be required 
for the project if the new building will represent a net expansion of more than 25% of the total Gross Floor 
Area of all buildings on the Property, or a net expansion of more than 500 square feet, whichever is less. 
However, if the project will not meet such a threshold, then there will not be a significant alteration, 
enlargement, or intensification of the existing use and a Conditional Use Authorization will not be required.  

Please note that the building permit for the construction of the new building will be subject to all applicable 
Planning Code requirements, such as rear yard (Section 134), side yards (Section 133), and neighborhood 
notification (Section 311).  

3.  The project location is in the northwest corner of the main lot, close to the property line. How would the RH-
1(D) setbacks be defined as the site is so large and has minimal street frontage, and it is unclear where the 
setbacks would apply? 

Zoning Administrator interpretations of Planning Code Section 130 state that, pursuant to the provisions of 
Planning Code Sections 101.1, 172(b), 173(b), and 307, the Zoning Administrator has the authority to 
determine lot frontages in certain situations. The Property in this case is unusually large, has an atypical 
shape, and does not have a clear lot frontage. The referenced interpretations clarify that the intent of 
frontage determinations by the Zoning Administrator are to ensure the most compliant option for the 
subject lot and to maintain block patterns.  

The Property does not technically front Junipero Serra Blvd, but instead abuts three City-owned properties 
that effectively serve as public right-of-way for Junipero Serra Blvd. The existing buildings are primarily 
accessed from Junipero Serra Blvd and are generally located within the eastern half of the Property. In 
contrast, almost all other development on the block fronts on Brotherhood Way. The short extension of 
Thomas Moore Way is limited and does not provide any substantial frontage for the Property. Therefore, it is 
my determination that the Property frontage shall be considered the eastern most property line that fronts 
City-owned Lots 027, 028, and 029.  

4.  Would Planning Code Section 188 apply because existing buildings are being demolished and consolidated? 

The existing buildings are not noncomplying structures subject to Section 188 because they are located 
within the permitted buildable envelope (i.e., they are not located within the required rear yard, side yards, 
or front setback).  

5.  Because the property is in an RH district, would the Residential Guidelines be applied to the new 

nonresidential industrial building? 

The Residential Design guidelines do not apply to non-residential buildings withing residential zoning 
districts. Instead, such buildings are subject to the Urban Design Guidelines.  

3  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Daniel Robinson, AIA 
479 9th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

November 16, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1310 Junipero Serra Boulevard 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Ryan Balba, Assistant Planner 

4  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
