Letter of Determination 

March 27, 2023 

Abenet Tekie 
New Horizons Trust 
3739 Balboa St,Suite 243 
San Francisco CA 94121 

Also via email: isaacgroups@gmail.com 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Height/Bulk District: 

2023-000425ZAD 
1435 26th Avenue 
1827/004 
RH-1, Residential-House, One-Family  
40-X 

Dear Abenet Tekie: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1435 26th Avenue, 
Application No. 2022-000361PRJ, and the application of State law and the Planning Code. Your extraordinarily 
lengthy request consists of 68 pages containing 133 discrete questions (many including sub-questions), 
background information, and an appendix. This determination addresses your questions related to State law, 
Board of Supervisors’ actions, and Planning Department policies generally, and then addresses the few Planning 
Code questions separately.  

State Law and Planning Department Policies 

Per Planning Code Section 307(a), the Zoning Administrator has the authority and responsibility to “respond to 
all written requests for determinations regarding the classification of uses and the interpretation and 
applicability of the provisions of” the Planning Code. Planning Department policies that are not governed by the 
Planning Code are established and/or administered by either the Planning Commission or the Planning Director. 
Regarding the potential impact of the referenced State laws on the Planning Department’s review of Application 
No. 2022-000361PRJ, the Zoning Administrator does not have the authority or responsibility to interpret State 
law. Please see the various Planning Director Bulletins for more information on how the City currently interprets 
and implements some or all of the referenced State laws, which may be found at www.sfplanning.org. Any 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abenet Tekie 
1435 26th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94122 

March 27, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1435 26th Avenue 

dispute or final interpretation of State law would be adjudicated through the applicable local appeal options for 
a permit or other entitlement, or ultimately through the courts. 

Planning Code Questions 

Your questions numbered 8, 9, and 10 generally relate to the Planning Code. Please see the determinations 
below, with come caveats for portions of questions that are not entirely related to the Planning Code.  

8.

You ask is there any Planning Code regulation that would impact the ability to have up to 12 bedrooms
configured to be suitable for multigenerational family cohabitation?

There is no Planning Code regulation applicable to the subject property that would specifically limit the 
number of bedrooms in a Dwelling Unit at the subject property. However, there are other areas of the City 
where the number of bedrooms may trigger additional review and approvals, such as the Oceanview Large 
Residence Special Use District.

It’s also important to note that a Dwelling Unit may only be used for a single family, and the definition of 
both terms are provided below, per Planning Code Section 102. If a residential use is for a group of 
occupants that are not a family, then that is considered Group Housing, which is also defined below per 
Section 102. Please also note that the density of Group Housing is based on the number of bedrooms, and 
the maximum Group Housing density in the RH Zoning District is called out and described in Planning Code 
Sections 209.1 and 208. However, Group Housing is not currently permitted in the RH-1 Zoning District.

Dwelling Unitʏ . A Residential Use defined as a room or suite of two or more rooms that is designed for, or 
is occupied by, one family doing its own cooking therein and having only one kitchen. A housekeeping 
room as defined in the Housing Code shall be a Dwelling Unit for purposes of this Code. For the 
purposes of this Code, a Live/Work Unit, as defined in this Section, shall not be considered a Dwelling 
Unit. 

Family. A single and separate living unit, consisting of either one person, or two or more persons related 
by blood, marriage or adoption or by legal guardianship pursuant to court order, plus necessary 
domestic servants and not more than three roomers or boarders; a group of not more than five persons 
unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption, or such legal guardianship unless the group has the attributes 
of a family in that it (a) has control over its membership and composition; (b) purchases its food and 
prepares and consumes its meals collectively; and (c) determines its own rules or organization and 
utilization of the residential space it occupies. A group occupying group housing or a hotel, motel, or any 
other building or portion thereof other than a Dwelling, shall not be deemed to be a family. 

Group Housing. A Residential Use that provides lodging or both meals and lodging, without individual or 
limited cooking facilities or kitchens, by prearrangement for 30 days or more at a time and intended as 
Long-Term Housing, in a space not defined by this Code as a Dwelling Unit. Except for Group Housing 
that also qualifies as Student Housing as defined in this Section 102, 100% Affordable Housing as 
defined in Planning Code Section 315, or housing operated by an organization with tax-exempt status 
under 26 United States Code Section 501(c)(3) providing access to the unit in furtherance of it primary 

2 

Abenet Tekie 
1435 26th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94122 

March 27, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1435 26th Avenue 

mission to provide housing, the residential square footage devoted to Group Housing shall include both 
common and private space in the following amounts: for every gross square foot of private space 
(including bedrooms and individual bathrooms), 0.5 gross square feet of common space shall be 
provided, with at least 15% of the common space devoted to communal kitchens with a minimum of 
one kitchen for every 15 Group Housing units. Group Housing shall include, but not necessarily be 
limited to, a Residential Hotel, boardinghouse, guesthouse, rooming house, lodging house, residence 
club, commune, fraternity or sorority house, monastery, nunnery, convent, or ashram. It shall also 
include group housing affiliated with and operated by a medical or educational institution, when not 
located on the same lot as such institution, which shall meet the applicable provisions of 
Section 304.5 of this Code concerning institutional master plans. 

9.  The following questions relate to legislated height districts and the additional height controls of Planning 

Code Sections 260 and 261: 

a.  You ask who in the City has the authority and responsibility to respond to written requests for 

determinations regarding the interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the General Plan? 

The Planning Code does not designate a specific person or body to make such determinations upon 
request. However, individual actions (project approvals, denials, legislation, etc.) must be found 
consistent with the General Plan per various provisions in the Planning Code. The entity charged 
with rendering such a determination varies based on the nature of the action. 

b.  You ask what constitutes the City’s “Master Plan” prior to the 1996 Charter amendment, as 

referenced in Planning Code Section 340. Where or how would someone obtain a copy of that 
Master Plan?  

This question is not a request to interpret the Planning Code. However, copies of such historical 
documents may be found through the San Francisco Public Library, the Clerk of the Board of 
Supervisors, and/or other sources.  

c.  You ask if Planning Code Section 252 a “legacy” of the Master Plan referenced in Section 340?  

As above, this question is not a request to interpret the Planning Code. Nonetheless, in response to 
your question, Planning Code Section 252 has existed in its current form since at least 1972.  

d.  You ask if the City’s General Plan contains the prior master-plan-created specific height and bulk 

districts, such as 40-X (e.g., via SEC. 252 plus SEC. 340, per the above)? 

While the Urban Design Element provides guidance on building heights, the General Plan does not 
establish or impose specific Height or Bulk Districts. Height districts are established and mapped 
through the Planning Code and Zoning Maps, which are established and amended by the Board of 
Supervisors by ordinance.  

e.  You ask if the subject property is in a 40-X Height and Bulk District, noting that Planning Code 

Section 261(b)(1) provides a more restrictive 35-foot height limit, and subsequently ask if the 35-foot 
height limit is an objective control that could be grounds for disapproving a permit for a building up 

3  

 
 
  
Abenet Tekie 
1435 26th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94122 

to 40 feet in height?  

March 27, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1435 26th Avenue 

The subject property is within a 40-X Height and Bulk District. Additional height controls, such as the 
35-foot limit in question, provide additional height regulations. A permit that does not meet an 
applicable height control and does not obtain any relief under the Planning Code and/or State law 
for which it may be eligible may be disapproved.  

f.  You ask whether, when the Charter was amended in 1996 and updated the General Plan if it made 
consistency findings with the “inherited” Master Plan, specifically with respect to Height and Bulk 
Districts? 

This question does not seek an interpretation of the Planning Code. You may wish to research this 
question through the Department of Elections, the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, and/or the San 
Francisco Public Library.  

10.  You ask if the City has a specific plan as defined in Gov. Code §65450-65451? 

The City has a General Plan that is comprised of multiple elements (e.g., Housing, Transportation, Urban 
Design, etc.) and multiple Area Plans (e.g., Downtown, Mission, Western Shoreline, etc.). These Area Plans 
meet many, if not all the components of a Specific Plan as defined in California Government Code Section 
65450-65451. Rendering a determination of consistency between any Area Plan with the legal definition of a 
Specific Plan is not within the authority of the Zoning Administrator.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Neighborhood Groups 
Kate Conner, Planning Department 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
