Reissued Letter of Determination 

August 18, 2021 

Jim Abrams  
J. Abrams Law, P.C. 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-001699ZAD 
145 Jefferson Street 
0013 / 016 
C-2 (Community Business) 
Michael Christensen - (628) 652-7567 or Michael.Christensen@sfgov.org 

Dear Jim Abrams: 

A letter was originally issued on July 13, 2021 in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding 
the property at 145 Jefferson Street. The original request was submitted on February 18, 2021 and a 
supplemental request was submitted on June 11, 2020. However, when the original letter was issued, proper 
notice was not provided to an interested party that had requested to receive a copy. Therefore, the letter is being 
reissued to provide proper notice to interested parties. 

The request seeks confirmation of the following: 1) whether a proposed cannabis museum, including museum 
tour space, exhibition cannabis growing and processing spaces, and a gift shop containing a licensed retail 
cannabis dispensary would be considered a General Entertainment use; and 2) whether the gift shop, containing 
a licensed retail dispensary selling cannabis products, would be subject to the location controls of Planning 
Code Section 202.2, specifically, the required 600-foot buffer between Cannabis Retail establishments. 

DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED CANNABIS MUSEUM USE 
While detailed floor plans remain in the early stages of design, an updated conceptual-level description of the 
proposed use of the premises is described by floor below. Please note that floor plan markups and listed square 
footage approximations listed below were not prepared or reviewed by a professional designer (i.e. are not 
verified Gross Floor Area summaries), but instead are applicant-prepared figures intended to provide sufficient 
understanding of how the proposed Cannabis Museum would function and comply with Planning Code use 
regulations.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

First Floor 
In its existing condition, the premise’s ground floor space contains approximately 7,000 square feet of open floor 
area. In the proposed Cannabis Museum layout, all visitors would enter on Jefferson Street, first walking into an 
approximately 1,500 square foot reception and lobby space, where visitors would check in and register, queue 
for the beginning of a scheduled tour, and also view historical photos, artifacts, and informational displays about 
the Cannabis Museum’s contents and purpose. The reception and lobby area would wrap around an 
approximately 3,600 square foot gift shop, which would be a fully licensed retail dispensary selling cannabis and 
cannabis products, including those grown and processed on-site. The gift shop would be open to the general 
public. However, its primary intent would be to serve as an end point for tours through the Cannabis Museum 
and items for sale would not be limited to cannabis and cannabis products, but would also include branded 
merchandise, books and periodicals pertaining to the cannabis industry and its history, and other items. The gift 
shop’s size (representing approximately 15% of the premises overall floor area) is modeled on the size of 
analogous entertainment museum gift shops in the surrounding area, including the Aquarium of the Bay, San 
Francisco Dungeon, and Madam Tussauds. While exact building materials remain under review, the gift shop 
would be physically partitioned from the reception and lobby space, such that gift shop patrons would enter 
through a limited number of ingress/egress points. 

Ticketed museum goers would enter the first tour area space (approximately 1,900 square feet), which would 
offer a glassed-in view of the dispensary and informational displays regarding the licensing and operation of 
dispensaries in San Francisco and California. The first-floor tour area would also lead to elevators and stairs 
leading to the second floor of the Premises.  

A graphic markup of the first-floor conceptual plan is shown in Figure 1 below: 

  Figure 1: Conceptual floor plan for the first floor. 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

Second Floor 
In its existing condition, the premise’s second floor space contains approximately 12,260 square feet of floor 
area, with an existing approximately 2,500 square foot commercial kitchen on the Taylor Street side of the 
Premises. In the proposed Cannabis Museum layout, visitors entering the second level would exit stairs and 
elevators into a large tour area, containing a small theater space (intended for informational movie displays, 
talking events, performances, etc.) and various informational displays and exhibits geared towards educating 
visitors on the basic elements of the history of cannabis, specifically cannabis in San Francisco and California.  

The central tour area (approximately 10,460 square feet) would be anchored by two show rooms on either side of 
the space. On the Mason Street side of the second floor there would be an approximately 900 square foot indoor 
cannabis cultivation room separated by a glass wall, where visitors would be able to observe and learn about 
cultivation, including the standards and quality required in cannabis cultivation. Informational displays in the 
tour area near the cultivation show room would educate visitors on how cannabis is selected for its aromas and 
flavors. The show room would not be designed as an industrial-scale cultivation area intended to produce 
cannabis for off-site sale, but instead would be primarily designed and curated to educate visitors of the 
museum and produce cannabis products sold in the first-floor gift shop dispensary.  

On the Taylor Street side of the second floor the existing commercial kitchen would be reduced in size to about 
900 square feet and similarly be partitioned by a glass wall, with the kitchen area used to prepare and package 
edible cannabis products. Visitors would be able to observe kitchen activity from their side of the glass wall. The 
commercial kitchen area would not be used for extraction of cannabis flowers to create oil, but instead would 
prepare edibles from cannabis flowers grown and dried on site for sale in the gift shop dispensary. 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

A graphic markup of the second-floor conceptual plan is shown in Figure 2 below: 

  Figure 2: Conceptual floor plan for the second floor. 

Third Floor 
In its existing condition, the premises’ third floor space contains a total of approximately 4,960 square feet in two 
discrete spaces: an approximately 2,900 square foot open floor space and an approximately 2,060 square foot 
irregularly shaped floor area that offers views to the second floor area of the Premises below. In the proposed 
Cannabis Museum layout, the 2,900 square foot room would contain a show room space (approximately 610 
square feet) for drying the cannabis flowers grown in the second-floor cultivation show room and then either 
packaged for sale in the gift shop dispensary or moved to the second-floor kitchen show room for cooking into 
edible cannabis products. The remainder of the 2,900 square foot room (approximately 2,290 square feet) would 
contain tour area (separated by a glass wall), where visitors could view into the drying room and read 
informational displays on the drying and packaging process. The noncontiguous 2,060 square foot space would 
be used for site administration (i.e. accessory office and storage). 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

A graphic markup of the third-floor conceptual plan is shown in Figure 3 below: 

 Figure 3: Conceptual floor plan for the third floor. 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PLANNING CODE USES 
Table 1 (below) summarizes the approximate principal and accessory use square footages proposed as part of 
the Cannabis Museum:  

TABLE 1 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PLANNING CODE USES 

Floor 
Floor 1 

Floor 2 
Floor 3 

Total 

Use 
General Entertainment 
Principal General Entertainment 
Accessory Cannabis Retail  
General Entertainment 
General Entertainment 
Principal General Entertainment 
Accessory Office and Storage Space 
Retail General Entertainment 

Approximate Square 
Footage 
7,000 
3,400 
3,600 
12,260 
4,960 
2,900 
2,060 
24,220 

5  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

Planning Code Section 102 defines General Entertainment as: 

“A Retail Entertainment, Arts and Recreation Use that provides entertainment or leisure pursuits to the 
general public including dramatic and musical performances where alcohol is not served during 
performances, arcades that provide eleven or more amusement game devices (such as video games, 
pinball machines, or other such similar mechanical and electronic amusement devices), billiard halls, 
bowling alleys, skating rinks, and mini-golf, when conducted within a completely enclosed building, and 
which is adequately soundproofed or insulated so as to confine incidental noise to the premises. 
Mechanical amusement devices are further regulated in Sections 1036 through 1036.24 of the Police Code.” 

Planning Code Section 102 defines Accessory Use as: 

“A related minor Use that is either necessary to the operation or enjoyment of a lawful Principal Use or 
Conditional Use, or appropriate, incidental, and subordinate to any such use, and is located on the same 
lot.” 

Planning Code Section 204.3(a)(1) stipulates that an accessory use cannot occupy more than one-third of the 
total floor area occupied by such use, any additional accessory uses, and the Principal or Conditional Use to 
which it is accessory, except in the case of accessory off-street parking or loading. Additionally, Planning Code 
Section 204.3(a)(3) states the following regarding Cannabis Retail as an accessory use: 

“Limitations on Cannabis Retail Accessory Usesʏ The sale of cannabis as an accessory use is subject to any 
applicable limitations or regulations imposed by the Office of Cannabis. Cannabis Retail is not permitted as 
an Accessory Use unless the Cannabis Retail establishment holds a permit from the City’s Office of 
Cannabis specifically permitting Cannabis Retail accessory to another activity on the same premises.” 

DETERMINATION 
Based on the information provided above, it is my determination that the proposed cannabis museum would be 
a use that principally provides entertainment and leisure to the general public and would generally meet the 
definition of General Entertainment. The proposed accessory uses represent 23.4% of the total floor area, of 
which approximately 15% would be devoted to the gift shop containing the accessory cannabis retail use. In 
order to ensure the accessory uses are incidental and subordinate to the principle General Entertainment use, 
the following provisions must be met: 1) the growing and manufacturing of cannabis products on-site is 
principally conducted as an exhibition for the entertainment and view of the general public and not for the 
production of cannabis for distribution to other facilities, and 2) the proposed gift shop, conducting adult use 
sales of cannabis products, is not signed or marketed separately from the museum activity and is not open for 
sales when the museum activity is not in operation. 

Please note that the Office of Cannabis has not yet formally established a permit for accessory cannabis retail. 
Therefore, such a permit must be created, and the business must obtain such a permit demonstrating that the 
accessory cannabis retail is accessory to another activity on the same premises, before an accessory cannabis 
retail use may be authorized under the Planning Code.  

If the criteria above are met, then the cannabis retail activity within the proposed museum is considered an 
accessory use at the site and is not subject to Planning Code requirements applying to Cannabis Retail as a 

6  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jim Abrams 
One Maritime Plaza, Suite 1900 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

July 13, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
145 Jefferson Street 

Principal or Conditional use. This includes the location requirements prescribed in Planning Code Section 202.2 
(e.g. 600-foot buffer). If the criteria above are not met, then the sale of cannabis on-site may only be conducted 
as a separate Principal or Conditional use and would be subject to the location requirements prescribed in 
Planning Code Section 202.2. As of the writing of this letter, any principal Cannabis Retail use at 145 Jefferson 
Street would not be compliant with the location standards of Section 202.2 because it is within 600 feet of 2627 
Taylor Street, which contains a Cannabis Retail use licensed by the Office of Cannabis. 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Michael Christensen, Senior Planner 
Claudine Asbagh, Principal Planner, NE Quadrant 

7 

