Letter of Determination 

March 17, 2022 

Peter Tham 
754 Lakeview Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94116 
Peter.Tham@LTGroupRE.com 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear Peter Tham: 

2022-000339ZAD 
1501 Waller Street 
1253/091 
RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District 
40-X Height and Bulk District 
Within ¼ Mile of the Fringe Financial Service Restricted Use District 
Within ¼ Mile of an Existing Fringe Financial Service Restricted Use District 
Sharon M. Young – (628) 652-7349 or sharon.m.young@sfgov.org  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1501 Waller 
Street. The subject property is located within the RH-3 (Residential, House, Three-Family) Zoning District and a 
40-X Height and Bulk District. Your letter states that the ground floor commercial space at 1501 Waller Street is 
approximately 700 square feet in floor area, was last occupied by a pilates studio, is currently vacant, and you 
request confirmation that a nail salon can be established in this vacant ground floor commercial space.  

Generally, commercial uses are not permitted in residential zoning districts, including the RH-3 Zoning District. 
However, the commercial unit at 1501 Waller St is considered a limited non-conforming use (LCU), which is 
allowed to continue per the controls of Planning Code Section 186. The subject ground floor commercial space 
at 1501 Waller Street has a Planning record on file between the years 1919 to 1992 as a LCU (see attached for 
reference). From the review of this historical file, the ground floor commercial space has been used as a grocery 
store, delicatessen, and retail specialty food store with accessory takeout food preparation with less than 100 
square feet of floor area. Based on a website search in more recent years, it appears the subject commercial 
space was also used as an architectural office (d.b.a. Ewald Maniscalco Architecture) and a pilates studio (d.b.a. 
Soulful Pilates).  

Per Planning Code Section 186(a) and (b), LCUs are permitted within RH, RM, RTO, and RED Districts per the land 
use controls of the Neighborhood Commercial Clusters Zoning District (NC-1) of Section 710 or any Restricted 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Tham 
Peter.Tham@LTGroupRE.com 

March 17, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
1501 Waller Street 

Use Subdistricts within ¼ mile of the subject lot. A nail salon is considered a Personal Service use, which is 
defined in Planning Code Section 102 as follows: 

A Retail Sales and Services Use that provides grooming services to the individual, including salons, 
cosmetic services, tattoo parlors, health spas, bathhouses, and steam rooms. Personal Service does not 
include Massage Establishment or Gym, which as defined separately in the Planning Code.  

Personal Service is principally permitted on the ground floor in the NC-1 Zoning District and the subject lot is not 
within ¼ mile of any of the applicable Restricted Use Subdistricts.  

Based on the information above, the conversion of the vacant ground floor commercial space to a nail salon 
would be a continuation of the Limited Commercial Use in the subject commercial space. The proposed nail 
salon will be considered a Personal Service Use, which is a Retail Sales and Services Use that is principally 
permitted within the NC-1 Zoning District per Planning Code Section 710. A building permit must be filed, issued, 
and completed to legally establish the new use and any interior or exterior tenant improvements on the 
property, if proposed. Additionally, any LCU at the subject lot must comply with the controls of Section 186(1)(2) 
(i.e., signage, hours of operation, etc.). Please note that such a change of use at the subject lot would not trigger 
public notice per Planning Code Section 311. However, if the proposed nail salon qualifies as a Formula Retail 
Use (i.e., a chain store) per Planning Code Section 303.1, then such change of use will require a Conditional Use 
Authorization per Sections 303, 303.1(d), and 710.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Sharon M. Young, Planner 

Enc.  

Limited Commercial Use on file for 1501 Waller Street 

2 

