Letter of Determination 

December 6, 2021 

Elmer Lin 
Consortium 
2120 18th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-006510ZAD 
1657-1659 Mason Street 
0128/001 
RH-2 (Residential, House – Two Family) 
Kevin Guy – kevin.guy@sfgov.org  

Dear Elmer Lin: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 1657-1659 Mason 
Street (“Property”). Your request letter describes that the property is currently developed with an existing 2-unit 
residential building and a detached 4r-car garage situated on the Green Street frontage of the Property. The 
conceptual project described in your request letter ( “Project”) would add 2 dwelling units atop the existing 
garage, situated to the rear of the existing two-unit residential building, for a total of 4r dwelling units on the 
Property. Your letter seeks analysis and confirmation as to whether this Project would comply with several 
aspects of the Planning Code, which are addressed by subject below: 

Density 
The subject property is located within the RH-2 Zoning District, which allows 2 dwelling units per lot, or up to 1 
dwelling unit per 1,500 square feet of lot area with Conditional Use Authorization. The Property has 6,185 square 
feet of lot area and is therefore permitted to have up to 4 dwelling units with Conditional Use Authorization from 
the Planning Commission. Please note that your request letter did not propose or request information pertaining 
to the potential to add Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) to the Property. While it appears that one or more ADUs 
are permitted on the Property, this letter does not address ADUs in detail.  

Rear Yard 
As noted in your request letter, Planning Code Section 134 requires lots in the RH-2 Zoning District to maintain 
the rear 45% of a lot as a rear yard. The request letter does not explicitly state which street would be proposed to 
be considered as the front for the purpose of determining the required rear yard for the Project, but it is implied 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Elmer Lin 
Consortium 
2120 18th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

December 6, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
1657-1659 Mason Street 

that Green Street would be used, resulting in a rear yard running parallel to the southern property line. However, 
based on the existing development of the lot and Zoning Administrator interpretations of Planning Code Section 
130(c) from November 1985 and March 1987, Mason Street is considered the front of the lot for the purpose of 
calculating the required rear yard.  

The Planning Code contains provisions to reduce or reconfigure this rear yard requirement based on adjacent lot 
conditions and unique lot configurations (such as the corner lot configuration of the Property). In this case, per 
Section 134(e)(4)(A), the required rear yard would be reduced to match the depth of the qualifying rear building 
wall of the adjacent building on Lot 002 to the south. Therefore, the Project as designed would encroach into the 
required rear yard and would have to seek and justify a Variance from the Zoning Administrator in accordance 
with the procedures and criteria of Planning Code Section 305. 

Height 
Planning Code Section 260(a)(1)(D) states, in part, that “where the lot has frontage on two or more streets, the 
owner may choose the street or streets from which the measurement of height is to be taken.” As such, because 
the Property fronts both Mason Street and Green Street, either frontage may be selected to measure height. The 
Property is in a 40-X height district. However, Planning Code Section 261(c)(1) requires that the “height limit shall 
be 30 feet at the front lot line or, where the lot is subject to a legislated setback line or required front setback as 
described in Section 131 or Section 132 of this Code, then at such setback; and shall increase at an angle of 45 
degrees from the horizontal toward the rear of the lot until the height limit prescribed by Subsection (b) above is 
reached.” 

Your request states that “Planning Sec. 261(b)(A) permits height increases where the rear line of the lot is higher 
by 20 or more feet than at the front line.” Assuming this reference is to Section 261(b)(1)(A), that section does 
permit such an increase in height to 40 feet, but only applies to RH-1 Districts. Because the Property is zoned RH-
2, Section 261(b)(1)(A) does not apply.  

The height of the buildings measured from Green Street would be subject to the relevant controls for RH-2 
Zoning Districts in Section 260 and 261, including the lateral slope provisions of Table 260. Given the irregular 
topography and cross-slope present on the Property, the request letter and exhibits do not include sufficient 
information to determine exact conformance with the height measurement provisions of Planning Code 
Sections 260 and 261. Detailed analysis, potentially including three-dimensional diagrams, would be required to 
definitively measure the permitted building envelope for the portion of the lot that would be affected by the 
Project. However, based on the submitted exhibits, it appears the Project would generally conform  

Open Space 
The Project includes two areas that could potentially qualify as usable open space, as required by Planning Code 
Section 135. Each dwelling unit in the RH-2 Zoning District must provide at least 125 square feet of private usable 
open space, or 166 square feet of common usable open space, or a qualifying mix of private and common open 
space. Additionally, this open space must meet certain requirements for exposure and minimum dimensions per 
Sections 135(f) and (g). Space provided on balconies or decks must have a minimum dimension of 6 feet in any 
direction. Therefore, the space proposed by the 5-foot 3-inch setback above the first story would not count 
toward meeting the open space requirement for the Project. However, the roof decks conceptually proposed in 
your letter could meet the open space requirement for the project if the space meets the minimum requirements 
of Section 135.  

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Elmer Lin 
Consortium 
2120 18th Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

December 6, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
1657-1659 Mason Street 

Additional Information 
Please note that the existing building on the Property is designated a “Category A” historic resource. Any formal 
submittal of this Project would require preservation review to determine the compatibility of the addition with 
the existing historic resource building and the context of other historic resources in the area. In addition, the 
Project would require environmental review pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), further 
analysis for conformance with other applicable aspects of the Planning Code not addressed by this letter, and 
conformance with all applicable design guidelines (e.g., Residential Design Guidelines).  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

GDS Properties LLC, 1657-1659 Mason Street, San Francisco, CA 94133 (Property Owner) 
Neighborhood Groups 
Kevin Guy, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
