Letter of Determination 

2023-000034ZAD 
1888 Mission St 
3547/053 
Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) 
Urban Mixed Use (UMU) 
Mission Street Alcohol Restrict Special Use District 
Mission Street Formula Retail Restaurant Subdistrict 
Fringe Financial Services Restricted Use District 
Laura Ajello, laura.ajello@sfgov.org  

March 24, 2023 

Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear Keith Addy: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding expanding an existing business 
at 1888 Mission Street by merging two adjacent suites. Please see the detailed answers to your questions below.  

1.  QUESTION 1: 

a.  Can you verify at the time of permitting in 2016 if the zoning regulations in place allowed for an 

office use of a 1,924 sq ft to occupy the ground floor commercial space to be built and occupied was 
even allowed? 

The Planning Code defines various uses that may be considered some type of office use, including 
various types of services (business service, professional service, etc.). However, General Office use, as 
defined in Section 102, is not and has never been permitted in NC districts, including in 2016. 
Regarding use size, the maximum permitted non-residential use size is 5,999 square feet, with a 
Conditional Use Authorization required for use sizes of 6,000 square feet and greater. As noted 
below, the prohibition on commercial unit mergers resulting in more than 1,500 square feet in the 
Mission NCT district was not adopted until 2018.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 24, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1888 Mission Street 

b. 

If not, is the space previously defined as a non-conforming use?  Is it currently a conforming use and 
if not, please provide references to the appropriate, current code sections along with an explanation 
of why or why not? And include direction on how to change a building's use in your answer. 

The following is the sequence of permitting related to the subject space:  

•  The subject building was originally constructed per 200710014208 with one ground floor 
“commercial space” of approximately 9,000 square feet along Mission and 15th Streets.  

•  While a permit was not located to create Suites A, B, and C, Building Permit (BP) No. 
201411040609 was issued and completed in 2014 to create Suites D, E, and F.  

•  BP No. 201504294917 was issued and completed in 2015, and it changed the use of Suite E 
to a Business or Professional Service. At that time, this use was defined in Planning Code 
Section 790.108 as follows: 

“A retail use which provides to the general public, general business or professional 
services, including but not limited to, architectural, management, clerical, accounting, 
legal, consulting, insurance, real estate brokerage, and travel services. 

It also includes business offices of building, plumbing, electrical, painting, roofing, 
furnace or pest control contractors, if no storage of equipment or items for wholesale 
use are located on-site. It may also include incidental accessory storage of office 
supplies and samples. Parking, loading and unloading of all vehicles shall be located 
entirely within the building containing the use. 

It may provide services to the business community, provided that it also provides 
services to the general public. Otherwise, it shall be considered a nonretail service, as 
defined in Section 790.100 of this Code. 

It does not include research service of an industrial or scientific nature in a 
commercial or medical laboratory, other than routine medical testing and analysis by 
a health-care professional or hospital.” 

•  BP No. 201512044257 was issued in 2015 and completed in 2016, and established a Business 

Service use in Suite A (per the definition provided above).  

•  BP No. 201606170212 was issued in 2016 and completed in 2017, and it merged Suites B and 
C. It is not clear if there was an intent to change the use of this newly merged suite. The 
permit listed a variety of uses as existing and proposed, including print shop. Curiously, the 
Planning Department approval section of the building permit was crossed out by hand and 
replaced with “SFPUC,” and that space was used by SFPUC staff to approve the permit. 
Ultimately, the Planning Department did not review or approve this permit.  

c.  Can you verify if in fact we are exempt from the Sec. 754(c)(2), which states the prohibition limiting 
ground floor commercial space mergers limited to 1,500 sf max, does not apply here because both 

2  

 
 
  
Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 24, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1888 Mission Street 

the tenant improvement and the site development applications were submitted in 2016 and 2012 
respectively please provide a description as to why or why not we would not be exempt from this 
and provide the correct code sections in your answer? 

Planning Code Section 754(c)(2) was added to the Mission NCT by Ordinance No. 273-18, which took 
effect on December 21, 2018. As such, after that effective date no building permit could be issued 
that would result in a commercial space greater than 1,500 square feet. However, the a 
“grandfathering” provision was included that exempted “projects that submitted a development 
application, as defined in Section 401, to the Planning Department prior to July 31, 2018.” As such, 
any valid building permit or other development application that was filed and/or completed prior to 
December 21, 2018 is exempt from the merger control. However, BP No. 202212138191 was filed 
after the effective date of the Ordinance No. 273-18 and is therefore subject to the existing merger 
prohibition.   

2.  QUESTION 2 - After reviewing the exhibits found on p. 4, 5 and 6 can you verify: 

a.  The zoning map is correctly identifying the location of the UMU zone where shown on the south-

west corner of 15th St on the Block 0357, or is there perhaps an error in the reproduction of the map 
and this portion of UMU zone should have been shown on the opposite south-east corner of 15th St, 
thus providing street frontage to businesses along Mission street? 

The zoning map correctly shows the majority of the subject lot to be within the Mission Street NCT, 
including the eastern portion that fronts Mission Street. This is supported by proposed Eastern 
Neighborhoods zoning map included with Ordinance No. 299-08 when the lot was rezoned.  

b. 

If it is found to be correct, can the location of this portion of UMU zone be changed, and if so, can 
you provide a detailed description of how this would be accomplished, and identify the correct code 
sections where this information can be found, in your answer? 

Planning Code Section 302 addresses the required process for Planning Code amendments, which 
include amendments to the Zoning Maps. The legislative amendment application found through the 
following link also provides additional information: https://sfplanning.org/resource/pca-map-gpa-
supplemental.  

3.  QUESTION 3: 

a.  Would the Zoning Administrator and the SF Planning Department allow for the use classification to 
be changed from office to trade shop and if so can you provide the correct code sections on where 
to find how that is accomplished? 

Planning Code Section 754 provides which uses are permitted within the Mission Street NCT. Trade 
Shop is a principally permitted use at all stories. Any permit proposing to establish a Trade Shop use 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 24, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1888 Mission Street 

would be subject to Planning Department review.  

b. 

If the classification cannot be changed can you provide the correct code sections describing as to 
why not? 

Amending the Planning Code and/or Zoning Maps is at the discretion of the Board of Supervisors, 
with recommendation from the Planning Commission, and per the process outlined above.  

c. 

If the classification can be changed to trade shop would this use be allowed in the current space 
remaining as a designated Mission NCT, and could the suites be combined as originally proposed, 
and if not can you provide the correct code sections describing as to why that would not be allowed 
in your answer(s)? 

As stated above, a Trade Shop is a principally permitted use in the subject ground floor space. 
However, Section 754(c)(2) prohibits the consolidation or merger of existing ground floor 
commercial spaces in the Mission NCT that would result in greater than 1,500 gross square feet of 
consolidated or merged space.  

d. 

If the zoning map designating the use districts were incorrect and the existing commercial spaces 
are found to be actually in an UMU district, and the classified use is changed to trade shop, can the 
expansion of the print shop and combination of the 2 suites be allowed? Please provide in your 
answer the correct code sections describing as to why or why not this would be allowed? 

As indicated above, the zoning map designation is not incorrect. However, the ground floor 
commercial merger controls for the Mission NCT do not apply to the UMU district.  

4.  QUESTION 4: 

a.  Remaining as a use in an existing Mission NCT, would the Planning Department allow a new print 

shop next door to occupy suite "D" if the suites were not combined? 

The Planning Code does not separately define a “print shop” use. However, a Trade Shop use is 
principally permitted on the ground floor in the Mission NCT. A Trade Shop is defined to be a retail 
sales and service use that provides its goods and/or services directly to the customer, and it includes 
as part of its definition “Printing of a minor processing nature, including multi-copy and blueprinting 
services and printing of pamphlets, brochures, resumes, and small reports, but excluding printing of 
books, magazines, or newspapers.”  

However, a print shop that serves only the business community and does not serve the general 
public would likely be considered a Business Service as it is currently defined in Planning Code 
Section 102. Please note that a Business Service is a non-retail sales and service use that is not 
permitted on the ground floor in the Mission NCT.  

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 24, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1888 Mission Street 

Regarding the issue of the suites being combined (or not), the commercial space merger prohibition 
prevents Suite D from being combined with Suite B/C. However, a separate print shop use (assuming 
it is a permitted use, such as a Trade Shop) could obtain a building permit to be established and 
operate in Suite D.  

b.  Would this be allowed whether the use remained classified as "office"? 

No General Office use has been legally established on the ground floor of the subject building, as it is 
has not and currently is not permitted in the Mission Street NCT. However, any legally established 
uses on the subject lot are permitted to continue either as a permitted, conditional, or 
nonconforming use.  

c.  Would this be allowed if the use was changed to trade shop? And please provide the correct code 

sections describing as to why or why not this would be allowed or not? 

Please see the answer above regarding a Trade Shop use.  

5.  QUESTION 5: 

a. 

Is it the policy of the San Francisco Zoning Administrator and the San Francisco Planning 
Department that when zoning changes occur business owners within the affected areas are 
notified?  

Planning Code Sections 306 and 333 detail the required public notice for Planning Commission 
hearings to consider proposed Planning Code and/or Zoning Map amendments. There is no Code 
requirement or active policy to further notify the public once a Zoning Map amendment is approved 
by the Board of Supervisors.  

b.  Can you provide a description of the policy and the correct code sections where this information 

can be found in your answers?  

Please see the answer to “a” above.  

Please note that documentation of legislative actions, including Planning Code and Zoning Map amendments, 
may  be 
link: 
https://sfgov.legistar.com/Legislation.aspx. Additionally, copies of building permits and associated plans may be 
viewed and/or obtained through the Department of Building Inspection.  

the  Board  of  Supervisors’  website 

following 

through 

through 

found 

the 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

5  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Keith Addy 
440 Davis Ct 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 24, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
1888 Mission Street 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Laura Ajello, Planner 

6  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
