Letter of Determination 

February 18, 2021 

Laurence Solis 
Lululemon 
650 California Street, 7th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

Record Number:  
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2020-011379ZAD 
2040 Fillmore Street 
0653/022 
NCD – Upper Fillmore Neighborhood Commercial District  
Sylvia Jimenez, (628) 652-5555 or sylvia.jimenez@sfgov.org   

Dear Mr. Solis: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 2040 
Fillmore Street. This parcel is located in the Upper Fillmore Neighborhood Commercial District. The 
request seeks confirmation whether the conversion of the existing Formula Retail Use (dba Ralph Lauren) 
to another Formula Retail Use (dba Lululemon) at the subject property will require a new Conditional Use 
Authorization.  

BACKGROUND 
The subject property is approximately 5,000 square feet in size and contains a three-story residential and 
commercial building. On April 10, 2008, a Conditional Use Authorization (CUA) was granted to convert a 
vacant retail sales establishment (previously occupied by Smith & Haven) to a Formula Retail Use (dba 
Ralph Lauren, an apparel and accessories store) at the ground floor of the subject property (Case No. 
2007.1095, Motion No. 17578).  

Pursuant  to  Planning  Code  Section  178(c)(3),  a  change  of  owner  or  operator  of  a  Formula  Retail 
establishment is determined to be an intensification of use and a Conditional Use authorization shall be 
required if one or more of the following occurs: 

(A)  A change of use from one use to another, including but not limited to a change from one use 
to another within the use category Retail Sales and Service, and within the sub-categories of 
uses in the definition of General Retail Sales and Service in Section 102 and other Retail Sales 
and Service in and Section 890.102 of this Code; 

(B)  Expansion of use size; 
(C)  Change to a Formula Retail establishment that has more locations that the existing Formula 

Retail establishment; 

www.sfplanning.org 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laurence Solis  
Lululemon  
650 California Street, 7th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94108 

February 18, 2021 
                        Letter of Determination 
             2040 Fillmore Street 

(D)  Installation  of  a  commercial  kitchen,  including  but  not  limited  to:  ovens,  open  ranges  or 
stoves,  fryers,  oven  hoods  or  kitchen  ventilation  systems,  heating  stations,  steam  tables  or 
cabinets, cold food storage, increased food preparation areas or self-service drink dispensers; 
(E)  A pre-existing Formula Retail use that had not previously been authorized via a Conditional 

Use from the Commission.  

In  your  letter,  dated  December  9,  2020,  you  stated  that  there  are  approximately  600  Ralph  Lauren 
locations  worldwide.  However,  affiliated  brands  such  as  Polo  Sport  and  Club  Monaco  are  considered 
separate Formula Retail uses under the Planning Code and thus cannot be included in the overall count 
of Ralph Lauren store locations. The total number of Ralph Lauren only store locations is currently 145. In 
comparison, the proposed Formula Retail use (dba Lululemon) has approximately 506 store locations.  

DETERMINATION 
Based  on  the  information  above,  it  is  my  determination  that  the  proposed  Formula  Retail  use  (dba 
Lululemon) at the subject property will result in an intensification of the existing Formula Retail use (dba 
Ralph Lauren) and thus requires a Conditional Use authorization per Planning Code Section 178(c)(3)(C).  

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses 
and  interpretation  and  applicability  of  the  provisions  of  the  Planning  Code.  This  Letter  of 
Determination  is  not  a  permit  to  commence  any  work  or  change  occupancy.  Permits  from 
appropriate Departments must be secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  If you believe this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or 
abuse in discretion by the Zoning Administrator, an appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 
15 days of the date of this letter.  For information regarding the appeals process, please contact the Board 
of Appeals located at 1650 Mission Street, Room 304, San Francisco, or call (415) 575-6880. 

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Sylvia Jimenez, Planner 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
