Letter of Determination 

August 5, 2021 

Tuija Catalano 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2020-003344ZAD 
233 Geary Street 
0314 / 001 
C-3-R (Downtown - Retail) 
Andrew Perry – (628) 652-7430 or andrew.perry@sfgov.org  

Dear Tuija Catalano: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 233 Geary Street, 
Lot 001 in Assessor’s Block 0314. The request seeks confirmation that the subject property contains at least 
50,198 gross square feet of legal, nonconforming office use or a determination of the total amount of legal, 
nonconforming office use at the subject property if the exact amount differs from that stated in the request letter. 
In short, based on the evidence available, it is determined that the subject property contains 31,552 gross square 
feet of principal office use. 

For clarity, this Letter of Determination notes that the building’s internal floor numbering system has changed 
over time. The top floor of the building was previously referred to as the 10th floor, but is now known as the 11th 
floor. This letter uses the current numbering system, with the top floor being the 11th floor. 

As documented in the supplemental materials attached to the request for a Letter of Determination, the subject 
building was occupied and operated by the I. Magnin retail department store in its entirety from 1948 until about 
1987, when the I. Magnin company was acquired and operated as a division of Federated Department Stores or 
Macy’s, Inc. Relevant to this letter, prior to the acquisition, there are plans documenting the building’s uses circa 
1948 and again circa 1981 when I. Magnin redeveloped the interior of the building. 

The 1981 plan set is the last documentation of the building’s layout and uses available prior to the passage of the 
Downtown Plan and associated rezoning in 1985. The Downtown Plan amendments required properties within 
the C-3-R District to obtain a Conditional Use Authorization for the addition of any amount of principal office use 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Tuija Catalano 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

August 5, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
233 Geary Street 

above the ground floor, and otherwise prohibited office uses at the ground floor. There is no Conditional Use 
Authorization record on the subject property indicating that principal office use was added to the building after 
1985, nor are there any building permits between approximately 1981 and 1985 to add office use to the building. 
Therefore, the determination on how much legal office exists on the subject property relies on the uses, 
configurations, and square footages documented in the 1981 plans. Your request documents additional office 
square footage present in the building subsequent to 1981 – some 50,198 total square feet in 1997 and 65,639 
total square feet in 2018. Even though this may be how the building was subsequently used by Macy’s during this 
period, there is no documentation to indicate the additional office space was legally established.   

From about 1948, when the I. Magnin company first occupied the building, until 1981, the lower floors of the 
building up through the 8th floor were primarily dedicated to the on-site retail functions of the I. Magnin 
company. While some of the floor area on each floor may have also been used for additional storage of stock or 
accessory offices for floor managers, these were very much accessory to the primary retail function on each 
floor, as is documented in Exhibits C.1 – C.3, and the supplemental floor plans submitted as part of your request. 
The 9th floor, by contrast, was where the “executive offices, general offices, personnel and credit departments” 
were located, functions that served not only the I. Magnin business operating within 233 Geary Street, but also 
the larger network of I. Magnin stores throughout the region and state. These office functions were beyond what 
would be considered accessory and would instead be considered principal office use.  

Above the ninth floor were two other non-public floors. The 10th floor was primarily “workshop facilities for 
various departments, including alterations, cleaning and pressing, inspection and other workrooms”, functions 
primarily serving the on-site retail functions at 233 Geary Street. The partial 11th floor was used for “employee 
functions, including a lunch room, nurse’s office, telephone switchboards and a lounge”, amenities that were 
almost certainly made available not only to those employees of the executive offices on the 9th floor, but to all I. 
Magnin employees, including those engaged in retail activities throughout the building. During this era, the total 
principal office use in the building were approximately 23,000 square feet, the vast majority of which (approx. 
18,700 square feet) was found on the 9th floor. 

As documented in your request, the Department concurs that circa 1981 the interior of the building was 
substantially modified, not only in the layout of the retail spaces, but also in regard to the general configuration 
of office uses in the building. Instead of concentrating regional office uses on a single floor, these offices were 
redistributed throughout the building and primarily located around the building’s perimeter so that views and 
access to light and air could be maximized for these workers. While a significant office presence could still be 
found on the 9th floor, principal office uses could now also be found to some degree on every floor at the 3rd floor 
and above.  

In consultation with the Planning Department, you submitted an amended table documenting the building’s 
office square footage over time, including 31,522 square feet in 1981. It is important to note that the 1981 
reconfiguration did not substantially increase the amount of dedicated office space in the building at the time, 
with approximately 25,000 square feet of space dedicated to physical offices. However, the building also includes 
various corridors, lobbies, and other common areas that serve both the office and retail uses in the building. 
Therefore, to determine the final gross square footage of principal office in the building, areas of common 
circulation that are needed to serve the office uses at each floor, as well as a portion of the common employee 
amenity areas such as the employee cafeterias and break room areas must be included.  

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Tuija Catalano 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

August 5, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
233 Geary Street 

The following two principles were used to determine how to partition the common areas between the different 
land uses: 1) for general circulation space at each floor, the portion allocated to principal office use was 
determined based on the relative proportion of office use to retail use occurring at each individual floor, and 2) 
for common employee areas located at the basement level and the 11th floor, the portion allocated to principal 
office use was determined based on the relative proportion of office use to retail use occurring throughout the 
entire building. In total, the building contains approximately 24,928 square feet of principal office use that is 
occupied by the offices themselves, plus 5,476 square feet of circulation space and 1,149 square feet of common 
employee amenity space that is allocated as part of the principal office use in the building. 

Based on your request, City records, and the information provided above, it is my determination that the 
building located at 233 Geary Street contains a total of 31,552 gross square feet of legal, principal office use. 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Jonathan Vimr, Senior Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
