Letter of Determination 

January 31, 2024 

Jeff Chan 
Innovabin Inc. 
445 Bayshore Blvd. 
San Francisco, CA 94124 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  

Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2023-009854ZAD 
245-265 Winston Drive  
3201-3251 20th Avenue 
850 La Playa 
7295/038, 7296/005, and 1691/019 
NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial, Shopping Center) 
RH-1(D) (Residential- House, One Family- Detached)  
C-2 (Community Business) 
Andrew Perry – (628) 652-7430 or andrew.perry@sfgov.org  

Dear Jeff Chan: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the installation and operation of 
a pre-fabricated shipping container (d.b.a. Bottle Bank/Innovabin) that functions as a recycling intake system for 
glass bottle, plastic bottle, and aluminum can returns that have a California Redemption Value (CRV). 
Specifically, the request seeks information regarding two different sites within San Francisco, characterized 
broadly as the parking lots at the “Safeway near Ocean Beach on La Playa” (Block 1691, Lot 019) and at “one of 
the parking lots at Stonestown Galleria (either in front of Trader Joe’s or Whole Foods)” (either Block 7295, Lot 
038, or Block 7296, Lot 005). The request seeks to confirm: 1) whether such recycling use would be permitted in 
these locations; 2) the process and/or permits required to permit these recycling containers; and 3) whether 
there are specific or preferred locations within each of the lots to allow for such installation. 

The Planning Code defines a Community Recycling Collection Center as:  

“A Utility and Infrastructure Use  that collects, stores, or handles recyclable materials, including glass and 
glass bottles, newspaper, aluminum, paper and paper products, plastic and other materials which may be 
processed and recovered, if within a completely enclosed container or building, having no openings other 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Jeff Chan 
445 Bayshore Blvd. 
San Francisco, CA 94124 

January 31, 2024 
Letter of Determination 
2023-009854ZAD (Multiple Lots) 

than fixed windows or exits required by law, provided that: (1) Flammable materials are collected and 
stored in metal containers; and (2) Collection hours are limited to 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. daily. It does not 
include the storage, exchange, packing, disassembling or handling of junk, waste, used furniture and 
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, used or salvaged machinery, or salvaged house-
wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment.”  

Within the zoning districts of the locations that are the subject of this request, a Community Recycling Collection 
Center use requires a Conditional Use Authorization from the Planning Commission. However, the Planning 
Code also permits Accessory Uses, defined as:  

“A related minor Use that is either necessary to the operation or enjoyment of a lawful Principal Use or 
Conditional Use, or appropriate, incidental, and subordinate to any such use, and is located on the same 
lot. Accessory Uses are regulated by Sections 204 through 204.5 and Sections 703(d), 803.2(d), 
803.3(b)(1)(C), 825(c)(1)(C), and 986 of this Code.” 

California state law, including changes made under SB 1013, aims to ensure that Californians have easy access to 
redeem their CRV beverage containers. Under this law, individual beverage container retailers or dealers must 
redeem CRV containers if they are located within a 1-mile radius of a supermarket and there is no certified 
recycling center operating within that boundary, or would be required to pay a $100-per-day fee if they chose not 
to redeem CRV containers in their store. The recycling intake containers that are the subject of this 
determination request would thus establish the necessary certified recycling center within a particular 
boundary, thereby alleviating the redemption obligation for retailers or dealers in that area. 

Based on the information above, and because the operation of a supermarket creates the need to redeem CRV 
containers or pay a fee, and because the Bottle Bank/Innovabin containers are being proposed within an 
accessory parking lot affiliated with a supermarket on that same lot, it is my determination that these proposed 
Bottle Bank/Innovabin containers may be considered an Accessory Use to a General Grocery use, provided it 
meets all of the following conditions: 

1. 

It complies with all applicable Accessory Use provisions for that zoning district;  

2.  Only one (1) such container may be permitted per lot, as defined in Planning Code Section 102;  

3.  Operation of these containers shall only occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., consistent 

with the definition for Community Recycling Collection Center; 

4.  Each container shall be subject to all applicable permitting and noticing requirements for the required 

building permit necessary to install the container; 

5.  Each application shall be subject to Zoning Administrator discretion to determine that the proposal is 

“incidental and subordinate to” the associated Principal Use; and 

6.  Each application shall be subject to Planning Department discretion regarding design and location. 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jeff Chan 
445 Bayshore Blvd. 
San Francisco, CA 94124 

January 31, 2024 
Letter of Determination 
2023-009854ZAD (Multiple Lots) 

As an Accessory Use, the Community Recycling Collection Center use will be considered part of the principal 
General Grocery use and therefore not subject to the requirement for a Conditional Use Authorization. To further 
expand on No. 3 above, placing a pre-fabricated container structure of this size will require the submittal and 
issuance of a building permit by the Department of Building Inspection. This building permit application 
submittal will be reviewed by the Planning Department to ensure the above conditions are met prior to 
approval. Depending on the location, the proposed containers may be subject to the neighborhood notification 
procedures of Section 311. Specifically, related to the subject determination request, neighborhood notification 
would be required for the “La Playa” site that is located within the NC-S (Neighborhood Commercial, Shopping 
Center) District, but would not be required for the “Stonestown” site if located within the portion zoned C-2 
(Community Business). 

Regarding placement of the proposed containers, there is a 5-foot legislated setback along the easternmost 
portion of Block 7296, Lot 005 (part of the “Stonestown” site) adjacent to 19th Avenue, where such container is 
not permitted. The Planning Code would not otherwise restrict the location of a proposed container at that site. 
More specifically, there are no front, side or rear setback requirements that apply to the NC-S or C-2 Districts. 
There is a lot coverage requirement (limited to 80% lot coverage) for the C-2 District when there are residential 
uses on the site. However, this would not apply for the Stonestown site, as there are currently no residential uses 
present. And as noted in No. 6 above, the Planning Department retains discretion regarding placement and 
design and may have additional comments upon submittal of a required application. 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owners 
Neighborhood Groups 
Andrew Perry, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
