Letter of Determination 

November 27, 2023 

Charles Hemminger 
Hemminger Architects 
2601 Mission Street # 215 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2023-006344ZAD 
2551 – 2557 Mission Street 
3615/023 
Mission Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District 
Mission Alcohol Restrict Special Use District (SUD) 
Within 1/4 Mile of an Existing Fringe Financial Service  
Mission Street Formula Retail Restaurant Subdistrict  
Fringe Financial Services RUD 
Kalyani Agnihotri – kalyani.agnihotri@sfgov.org 

Dear Charles Hemminger: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 2551 - 2557 
Mission Street. The request seeks confirmation of the following:  

1.  Whether Arts Activities uses are permitted at the ground, second, and/or third floors of the subject 

property, per the underlying zoning. 

Yes, Arts Activities is a principally permitted use in the Mission Street NCT District at all floor levels. 

2.  Whether a change of use can be approved for individual floors or for each tenant space separately, 

through the submittal of individual tenant improvement permits. 

Each individual commercial unit will require a building permit to establish a new use. These changes of use 
may be achieved through a single building permit for the entire building, through individual building 
permits for each commercial unit, or a mix of building permits covering different commercial units within 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charles Hemminger 
Hemminger Architects 
2601 Mission Street # 215 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

the building.  

November 27, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
2551 – 2557 Mission Street 

3. Whether the proposed changes of use would be subject to public notification and/or a Planning

Commission hearing.

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 311(b), “a change of use to a principally permitted use in an NC or NCT 
District… shall not be subject to the review or notice requirements of this Section 311.” Any use classified as 
a conditionally permitted use in the zoning control table in Planning Code Section 754 for the Mission Street 
NCT District would require the notification and public hearing procedures for Conditional Use 
Authorizations, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 333. 

4. Whether Office uses are permitted at the 2nd and 3rd floors of the subject property, per the underlying

zoning, and if permitted, whether an Office use can occupy individual tenant spaces on the same floor as 
the Arts Activities uses.

General Office is not permitted in the Mission Street NCT District. Most Non-Retail Professional Services are 
not permitted in the Mission Street NCT District, although Design Professional and Trade Office uses are 
principally permitted at all floors. Retail Professional Services are also principally permitted at all floors in 
the Mission Street NCT District.  

5. Whether Design Professional and Trade Office uses are permitted on the ground, second and/or third

floors of the subject property, per the underlying zoning.

See No. 4 above. 

6. Whether the individual tenant spaces on the 2nd and 3rd floors can be leased to a “mix of uses” such as
Arts Activities, Design Professionals, Trade Office, and/ or any other principally permitted uses per the
underlying zoning.

As stated in No. 2 above, each commercial unit is a separate and distinct space, and each commercial unit 
may be a separate land use, resulting in a mix of uses throughout the building.  

7. To paraphrase this question in your request letter, you asked for clarification of how the non-residential

use size controls would apply through the building and its various commercial units.

Planning Code Section 121.2 establishes non-residential use size limits for Neighborhood Commercial 

2 

Charles Hemminger 
Hemminger Architects 
2601 Mission Street # 215 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

November 27, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
2551 – 2557 Mission Street 

districts. Individual non-residential uses in the Mission Street NCT District of 6,000 square feet or greater 
require a Conditional Use Authorization. Again, because the commercial units within the subject building 
are constructed be separate and distinct units, the use size limit will apply to each commercial unit 
individually.  

It is also important to note that Planning Code Section 145.1 requires “active uses” on the ground floor, as 
defined in that section. Additionally, Planning Code Section 145.4 requires “active commercial uses” on the 
ground floor of certain street frontages, including Mission Street within the Mission Street NCT District (regardless 
of which uses are otherwise permitted on the ground floor within the district). Active commercial uses are 
defined in Section 145.4(c), and do not include Design Professional or Trade Office uses. Additionally, pursuant 
to footnote (4) in the zoning control table for the Mission Street NCT District in Planning Code Section 754, any 
Arts Activities use located on the ground floor shall have active commercial activities facing Mission Street, which 
may be retail activities accessory to the Arts Activities use, or a separate business operating in the street-facing 
space. 

Finally, please also be aware that changes of use within existing buildings may trigger certain impact fees 
pursuant to Planning Code Article 4, such as the Eastern Neighborhoods Infrastructure Impact Fee (Tier 1).  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Cort Family Trust (Property Owner) 
Neighborhood Groups 
Kalyani Agnihotri, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
