Letter of Determination 

September 8, 2022 

Johnson Wong, CFO 
North East Medical Services (NEMS) 
2171 Junipero Serra Boulevard, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address: 
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2022-004331ZAD 
2835 Geary Boulevard 
1091/032 
Geary Boulevard Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) 
Sharon M. Young – (628) 652-7349 or sharon.m.young@sfgov.org 

Dear Johnson Wong: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 2835 Geary 
Boulevard, and the supplemental letter you submitted on August 22, 2022. The subject property is located 
within the Geary Boulevard Neighborhood Commercial (NCD) and 40-X Height and Bulk District. The subject lot 
is approximately 21,750 square feet in size. Based upon Assessor’s Records, the subject property contains an 
approximately 21,000-square-foot two-story commercial building constructed in 1981. The request seeks 
confirmation if a proposed senior day care center would be an allowed use on the subject property as a federally 
designated Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) center, which would provide health education, 
nutrition education, exercise, recreation programs, and some medical screening and clinic functions.  

Background 
You had also previously requested and received a written determination on April 8, 2021, for a PACE center at a 
different location at 3921 Geary Boulevard. From the National Institutes of Health, PACE provides integrated 
comprehensive healthcare services that includes physicians, nurses, social workers, therapists, and others to the 
frail elderly on a capitated basis.  

Based on a review of the permit history on the project site, it appears the legal uses of the subject building is a 
Financial Service use, most recently occupied by Bank of America, and a General Entertainment use, most 
recently occupied by Family Billiards. Community Facility and Health Services are defined in Planning Code 
Section 102 as follows:   

Johnson Wong 
2171 Junipero Serra Boulevard, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94014 

September 8, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
2835 Geary Boulevard 

Community Facility. An Institutional Community Use that includes community clubhouses, neighborhood 
centers, community cultural centers, or other community facilities not publicly owned but open for public 
use in which the chief activity is not carried on as a gainful business and whose chief function is the 
gathering of persons from the immediate neighborhood in a structure for the purposes of recreation, 
culture, social interaction, health care, or education other than Institutional Uses as defined in this Section. 

Service, Health.  A Retail Sales and Service Use that provides medical and allied health services to the 
individual by physicians, surgeons, dentists, podiatrists, psychologists, psychiatrists, acupuncturists, 
chiropractors, Sole Practitioner massage therapists as defined in Section 29.5 of the Health Code, or any 
other health-care professionals when licensed by a State-sanctioned Board overseeing the provision of 
medically oriented services. It includes, without limitation, a clinic, primarily providing outpatient care in 
medical, psychiatric, or other health services, and not part of a Hospital or medical center, as defined by 
this Section of the Code, and Sole Practitioner Massage Establishments as defined in Section 29.5 of the 
Health Code, but does not include other Massage Establishments, which are defined elsewhere in this 
Code. 

The subject lot is located within the Geary Boulevard NCD Zoning District, which requires a Conditional Use 
Authorization for nonresidential use sizes of 6,000 square feet or larger per Planning Code Section 739. Per your 
request, the proposal is to use the entire building for the PACE Center, which would require the merging of the 
two existing nonresidential uses.  

Determination 
Based upon the information above and provided in your request letters, it is my determination that the 
proposed senior day care facility is considered a Community Facility. Depending on the level and type of medical 
services provided by the PACE Center, it may also be a Health Service as a separate, principal use (or possibly as 
an accessory use). Both uses are principally permitted at all floors within the Geary Boulevard NCD per Planning 
Code Section 739, although a building permit is required to formally change the use(s) within the existing 
building.  

Please also note that, separate from the issue of the proposed use, merging the two nonresidential spaces within 
the existing building for a single use that is greater than 5,999 square feet within the Geary Boulevard NCD will 
require a Conditional Use Authorization from the Planning Commission.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

2 

Johnson Wong 
2171 Junipero Serra Boulevard, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94014 

September 8, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
2835 Geary Boulevard 

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Sharon M. Young, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
