Letter of Determination 

April 30, 2021 

John Kevlin 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-000284ZAD 
3085 21st Street 
3614/063 
RM-2 (Residential-Mixed, Moderate Density) 
Monica Giacomucci – (628) 652-7414 or monica.giacomucci@sfgov.org  

Dear John Kevlin: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 3085 21st Street. 
The request seeks to confirm the existence of a legal nonconforming light manufacturing use encompassing the 
entire building at the subject property.  

The following is a summary of the property’s history: 

1.  The Department of Building Inspection (DBI) does not have the original new construction permit for the 
existing building on the property. According to the South Mission Historic Survey the existing building on 
the property was constructed in 1921 as an industrial building. No Planning Code or Zoning Ordinance 
was yet adopted at that time.  

2.  According to the 1931 San Francisco City Directories, the first known tenant of the subject property was 
the Superba Packing Company. Superba packaged prepared groceries, sundries, and meats at the 
subject property and distributed these products for retail sale at grocery stores elsewhere in the city, 
constituting a light industrial packing use. 

3.  The Shotwell Street Victoriana Historic District Description indicates the building was used as “food 

manufacturing” in 1948.  

4. 

In 1956, the City issued Building Permit (BP) No. 183208, with a scope of work to add a steel door and 
close a building opening with a part concrete and glass block and plaster ceiling. The existing and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

April 30, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
3085 21st Street 

proposed uses of the building were described as “packing.” This permit was approved by the Planning 
Department. The Department’s approval notes “L.I.” and “non-conforming,” and directs that the “use & 
building not to be enlarged.” The Department also identifies the property’s then-current zoning as “C”.  

5.  The Planning Code and Zoning Maps were amended in 1960 and the subject property’s zoning became 
R-4 (Medium-Density Multiple Residential District). While R-4 principally permitted certain “transitional” 
non-residential uses such as restaurants and professional offices, industrial uses were not included in 
these “transitional” permitted uses or in the list of conditional uses. Therefore, Superba continued as a 
nonconforming light industrial use until 1961, when it vacated the subject property. 

6.  According to NCU cards on file at the Planning Department, Bay Cabinet & Fixture Company (also known 
as Bay Cabinets & Construction General Contractors) began operating at the subject property in 1963, 
with no known tenant occupying 3085 21st Street between 1961 and 1963. According to Section 152 
(Non-Conforming Use, Abandonment) of the 1961 Planning Code, Non-Conforming Uses were 
considered abandoned if the subject property remained vacant for a continuous period of three (3) years 
if the building was originally designed or arranged for a nonconforming commercial or industrial use. An 
NCU card for the subject property indicates that the nonconforming use status of the subject property 
was C-M (General Commercial), likely because C-M Districts permitted the “light food processing” that 
occurred during Superba’s tenure at the subject property. The NCU cards note that Planning staff 
reviewed a floorplan of the subject property and determined the Bay Cabinet & Fixture Company was a 
“cabinet shop” permitted as a continuation of the existing legally nonconforming light industrial use. 

7.  The Planning Code and Zoning Maps were amended in 1978 by Ordinance 444-78 (Case No. ZM76.12), 
and the subject property’s zoning became RM-2 (Residential-Mixed, Moderate Density). Although NCU 
cards for the subject property were not updated past 1980, Bay Cabinet & Fixture Company continued 
operating at 3085 21st Street through at least May 1993, when DBI issued BP No. 9307596 for parapet 
reinforcement. Bay Cabinet & Fixture Company is identified as a “cabinet shop” on the permit and as 
“manufacturing” on the associated DBI job card. Light manufacturing uses were not permitted in RM-2 
Zoning Districts, so the nonconforming light manufacturing use continued until the cabinet shop ceased 
operation, sometime between 1993 and 1996. 

8. 

In 2013, the City issued Building Permit No. 2013.05.21.7477 to resolve a notice of violation relating to an 
awning for signage. The existing and proposed use was described as “non-profit light manufacturing.” 
The Planning Department’s stamped approval notes the permit is categorically exempt from 
environmental review. 

9.  Pedal Revolution operated out of the property from the early 1990s until earlier this year. The shop was 
operated through 2001 by Youth Industry, another youth-serving nonprofit, and subsequently operated 
by New Door Ventures. 

New Door is a non-profit that provides life- and job-skills training and employment for youth between the ages 
of 16 and 21 who are disconnected from employment and education. It has been hugely successful in assisting 
these youth to find employment, pursue further education, and obtain stable housing. They operated Pedal 
Revolution as a bicycle assembly, repair, and sales establishment. There are no building permit plans in the City 
record, and none were provided, that detail the interior layout of the subject building and how much area the 

2  

 
 
  
John Kevlin 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

April 30, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
3085 21st Street 

various activities occupied. However, an interior picture was provided to demonstrate that the front retail portion 
of the use occupied approximately the first 20 feet of depth in the 66-foot deep building, which represents 
approximately 30% of the floor area. The remaining area was used to store parts and to assemble and repair 
bicycles.  

The Planning Code defines Light Manufacturing as follows:  

“An Industrial Use that provides for the fabrication or production of goods, by hand or machinery, for 
distribution to retailers or wholesalers for resale off the premises, primarily involving the assembly, 
packaging, repairing, or processing of previously prepared materials. Light manufacturing uses include 
production and custom activities usually involving individual or special design, or handiwork, such as the 
following fabrication or production activities, as may be defined by the Standard Industrial Classification 
Code Manual as light manufacturing uses: 
   (a)   Food processing; 
   (b)   Apparel and other garment products; 
   (c)   Furniture and fixtures; 
   (d)   Printing and publishing of books or newspapers; 
   (e)   Leather products; 
   (f)   Pottery; 
   (g)   Glass-blowing; 
   (h)   Commercial laundry, rug cleaning, and dry cleaning facility; 
   (i)   Measuring, analyzing, and controlling instruments; photographic, medical, and optical goods; 
watches and clocks; or 
   (j)   Manufacture of cannabis products or cannabis extracts that are derived without the use of volatile 
organic compounds (any use requiring License Type 6—Manufacturer 1, as defined in California Business 
and Professions Code, Division 10). 
   It shall not include Trade Shop, Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 or 2, or Heavy Manufacturing 1, 2, 
or 3. This use is subject to the location and operation controls in Section 202.2(d).” 

Planning Code Section 183 regulates nonconforming uses, and subsection (a) specifically states:  

“Discontinuance and Abandonment of a Nonconforming Use, Generally. Whenever a nonconforming use 
has been changed to a conforming use, or discontinued for a continuous period of three years, or whenever 
there is otherwise evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a nonconforming use, such 
use shall not after being so changed, discontinued, or abandoned be reestablished, and the use of the 
property thereafter shall be in conformity with the use limitations of this Code for the district in which the 
property is located. Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for a 
period of six months shall constitute abandonment. Where a Massage Establishment is nonconforming for 
the reason that it is within 1,000 feet of another such establishment or because it is no longer permitted 
within the district, discontinuance for a continuous period of three months or change to a conforming use 
shall constitute abandonment.” 

Based on the information provided and discussed above, it is my determination that the current legal use of the 
property is legal nonconforming Light Manufacturing use. Light Manufacturing was clearly the historic use of the 
property when Pedal Revolution began occupancy in the 1990s. And while Pedal Revolution included a retail 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

April 30, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
3085 21st Street 

sales and service component, it also included bicycle assembly and repair, which are considered within Light 
Manufacturing. There is inadequate documentation to determine that such retail use went beyond an accessory 
context that represented a clear intent to discontinue or abandon the Light Manufacturing use. However, if the 
existing Light Manufacturing use is discontinued or abandoned per Planning Code Section 183 in the future, any 
new use will be required to meet all applicable land use controls at that time.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Monica Giacomucci, Planner 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
