Letter of Determination 

April 28, 2021 

Megan A. Jennings 
Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass LLP 
One Montgomery Street, Suite 3000 
San Francisco, CA 94104-5500 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2021-000845ZAD 
320 10th Street 
3520/002 
RCD (Regional Commercial District) Zoning District 
Western SoMa Special Use District 
Monica Giacomucci – 628-652-7414 or monica.giacomucci@sfgov.org  

Dear Megan: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 320 10th Street, 
where DoorDash proposes to lease an existing 5,250 square foot building for use as a “DashMart.” The request 
seeks confirmation of the following:  

1)  whether the proposed DashMart concept constitutes a Wholesale Sales Use with an accessory 

General Grocery use; or 

2)  whether DashMart constitutes a Wholesale Sales Use with an accessory General Retail Sales and 

Service Use; and 

3)  that DashMart does not constitute a Parcel Delivery Service use. 

Under the DashMart concept, the subject property would store household essentials, groceries, and pre-
packaged food items typically available at convenience stores that would be sold through the DoorDash online 
platform (e.g. website, app, etc.). The proposal also includes renting 3 to 5 parking spaces in the adjacent 
parking lot located at 1401 Folsom Street in connection with the DashMart use. Customers would primarily 
receive goods through delivery, though on-location order pickup would also be available. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Megan A. Jennings 
Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass LLP 
One Montgomery Street, Suite 3000 
San Francisco, CA 94104-5500 

April 28, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
320 10th Street 

The proposed DashMart concept would allow for items typically on sale at a walk-up convenience store to be 
made available by pre-order, either through delivery by a “Dasher” or by the customer through self-pickup. Such 
a concept would require a significant portion of the subject property to be dedicated to product inventory, with 
a small area reserved for individuals (customers and Dashers) who enter the subject building to pick up pre-
packaged orders. Ancillary functions would occupy the mezzanine area, including office space used for 
computer work and a break room for on-site employees. 

Planning Code Section 102 defines a Wholesale Sales Use as follows:  

“A Non-Retail Sales and Service Use that exclusively provides goods or commodities for resale or business 
use, including accessory storage. This use includes cannabis distribution (any use requiring License Type 
11—Distributor, as defined in California Business and Professions Code, Division 10). It shall not include a 
nonaccessory storage warehouse.”  

The determination request suggests that a small number of customers who order DashMart goods through the 
app are expected to opt out of delivery service. These customers will enter the subject property and pick up 
orders in much the same way that Dashers will pick up orders for delivery to customers. No point-of-sale 
transactions would take place at the subject property. Additionally, the items stored at the DashMart would be 
intended for individual sale and not in wholesale quantities, and for delivery to, or pickup from, the final 
customers, and not for resale or business use.  

The Planning Code defines a Parcel Delivery Service Use as follows:  

“A Non-Retail Automotive Use limited to facilities for the unloading, sorting, and reloading of local retail 
merchandise for deliveries, including but not limited to cannabis and cannabis products, where the 
operation is conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, including garage facilities for local 
delivery trucks, but excluding repair shop facilities. Where permitted in PDR Districts, this use is not required 
to be operated within a completely enclosed building.”  

The DashMart would be specifically designed to facilitate the unloading, sorting, and reloading of local retail 
merchandise (i.e. “last mile” delivery to final customers) within an enclosed building.  

Planning Code Section 204.5 provides controls for accessory off-street parking. Subsection (a) specifically states 
the following: 

“Location. Such parking or loading facilities shall be located on the same lot [emphasis added] as the 
structure or use served by them. (For provisions concerning required parking on a separate lot as a 
Principal or Conditional Use, see Sections 156 and 161 of this Code.)” 

Planning Code Section 151.1 provides maximum parking limits for the RCD and other Zoning Districts. 
Subsection (b) specifically states the following: 

“Off-street accessory parking shall not be required for any use, and the quantities of off-street parking 
specified in Table 151.1 shall serve as the maximum amount of off-street parking that may be provided as 
accessory to the uses specified. Variances from accessory off-street parking limits, as described in this 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Megan A. Jennings 
Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass LLP 
One Montgomery Street, Suite 3000 
San Francisco, CA 94104-5500 

April 28, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
320 10th Street 

Section 151.1, may not be granted. Where off-street parking is provided that exceeds the quantities 
specified in Table 151.1 or as explicitly permitted by this Section, such parking shall be classified not as 
accessory parking but as either a principally permitted or Conditional Use, depending upon the use 
provisions applicable to the district in which the parking is located. In considering an application for a 
Conditional Use for any such parking due to the amount being provided, the Planning Commission shall 
consider the criteria set forth in Sections 303(t) or 303(u) of this Code.” 

Based on the information above, it is my determination that the proposed DashMart would be classified as a 
Parcel Delivery Service, and the limited customer pick-up option would not qualify as an accessory General 
Grocery or General Retail Sales and Service use. Similar, although larger, facilities in San Francisco for other 
companies (e.g. Amazon) have also been determined to be a Parcel Delivery Service.  

Per Planning Code Section 758, the RCD Zoning District principally permits Wholesale Sales. However, Parcel 
Delivery Service is not permitted in the RCD Zoning District. Additionally, per Planning Code Sections 204.5 and 
151.1, any parking for DashMart in the adjacent parking lot located at 1401 Folsom Street would be considered 
its own separate use on that lot and require its own, separate review and authorization.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Monica Giacomucci, Senior Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
