Letter of Determination 

July 8, 2021 

Steven L. Vettel 
Farella Braun & Martel LLP 
235 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2020-006353ZAD 
333 Valencia Street 
3547/017 
Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercia Transit (NCT) 
Mission Alcohol Restricted Use District 
Ella Samonsky- ella.samonsky@sfgov.org  

Dear Steven Vettel: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 333 Valencia Street. 
The request is to release the property from Conditions 1, 2, and 3 of Variance Case No. 88321V, recorded in Notice 
of Special Restrictions (NSR) Document No. E273064, which required the provision of on and off-site accessory 
parking. 

On October 21, 1988, the Zoning Administrator approved Variance Case No. 88.321V to allow a reduction of the 
required off-street parking requirements for the building located at 333 Valencia Street, which was located in the 
Valencia Neighborhood Commercial (NCD) Zoning District. The variance was to allow a 7,850 square foot health 
club to locate on the ground floor of the building without providing the required off-street parking. The application 
also included the legalization of 22,655 square feet of office space on the second, third, and fourth floors of the 
building that was stated to have been converted without proper permits by a previous building owner and without 
providing the required off-street parking. The Zoning Administrator granted approval of the variance to allow the 
health club to locate on the ground level of the building and to legalize the office space on the second, third, and 
fourth floors without providing the required off-street accessory parking to serve the office use, with the following 
conditions: 

1.  That the applicant shall provide a minimum of 14 independently, accessible parking spaces on site. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Steven Vettel 
235 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

July 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
333 Valencia Street 

2.  That the applicant shall make available a minimum of 10 off-site parking spaces within 300 feet of the subject 

property for use by the members of Gold Gym after the house of 5:30 pm. 

3.  That the available parking provided after 5:30 pm shall be provided for the duration of the use of the ground 
level of the subject property as a health club and if the health club is converted to another use, the code 
required parking shall be provided. 

4.  That  the  tenants  of  the  subject  office  building  with  the  exception  of  Gold  Gym  and  the  property  owner's 

commercial space be limited to non-profit local serving organizations. 

5.  That  the  Zoning  Administrator  shall  be  notified  of  any  change  or  alteration  of  the  terms  of  the  usage 

agreement between Arco Auto Shop and the property owner. 

6.  That the property owner shall file a Building Permit Application establishing the use of the subject property 
as office use with 22,655 square feet of occupied floor area, 7,551.5 square feet of accessory offices and 4,364 
square feet of storage space. 

7.  That the property owner shall file a Building Permit Application establishing the use of the ground level of 

the subject property from 7,850 square feet of office use to a 7,850 square foot health club. 

8.  That in the event that the City is required to bring and prevails in a legal action to enforce the terms of this 
variance,  the  applicant  or  its  successors  and  assigns  shall  pay  to  the  City  and  City's  costs  and  expenses 
incurred to enforce the terms of this variance, including a reasonable attorney's fee and expert witness fees. 
9.  That the applicant shall encourage transit use by employees by instituting the following procedures and 

programs: 

A.  Public transit promotion and provision of convenience services for use of public transit. 

1. The  applicant  shall  sell  public  transit  passes  and  tickets  on-site  monthly  in  locations 

convenient to employees. 

2. The applicant shall distribute transit route and schedule information on-site in locations 

convenient to employees with transit pass sales. 

B.  Alternatives  to  single  occupancy  automobile  commute  by  employees  shall  be  encouraged  and 

facilitated. 

1. The applicant shall provide safe, secure facilities and locations for storage of bicycles, and 
is encouraged to provide safe, secure facilities and location for storage of scooters and/or 
motorcycles used by employees. 

In 2009, the subject property was rezoned to Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District (NCT), and 
Planning  Code  Sections  151  and  151.1  were  amended  to  remove  minimum  off-street  accessory  parking 
requirements in the Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit District.  

On  July  10,  2017  the  Zoning  Administrator  issued  a  Letter  of  Determination  finding  that  the  subject  property 
contained 22,655 square feet of legal office use.  

On  April  30,  2020,  the  Planning  Commission  approved  a  Conditional  Use  Authorization  (Motion  No.  20692)  to 
authorize a Health Services use and Public Facility use greater than 2,999 square feet and a Public Facility use on 
the second floor (dba San Francisco Department of Public Health) on the subject property at  333 Valencia Street. 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
Steven Vettel 
235 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

July 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
333 Valencia Street 

The  Health  Services  use  is  located  at  the  ground  floor,  where  the  Gold  Gym  was  originally  established.  The 
legalized Office use continues on the third and fourth floors.  

Based on the information above, in your request, and in City records, it is my determination that the conditions of 
approval  of  Variance  Case  No.  88.321V  pertaining  only  to  the  provision  of  off-street  accessory  parking  (i.e. 
Conditions 1-3) are no longer valid. The other conditions of approval were not based on underlying Planning Code 
requirements at that time and were deemed necessary to legalize the proposed land uses at that time, including 
the office use. It should be noted that the underlying Valencia Street NCT Zoning District does not permit General 
Office uses on the subject property. As such, General Office uses on the subject property must continue to comply 
with all other applicable Conditions of Approval outlined in the decision letter for Variance Case No. 88.321. 

A "Partial Release of Notice of Special Restrictions” will be provided separately and may be recorded on the subject 
property to nullify the off-street accessory parking conditions contained in NSR No. E273064.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

333 VALENCIA OWNER LLC 
Neighborhood Groups 
Ella Samonsky, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
