Letter of Determination 

January 8, 2021 

Jonathan Levy 
EVgo Services, LLC 
Senior Vice President, Business Development 
Jonathan.Levy@evgo.com 

Record No.: 
Site Address:    
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:   

2020-009198ZAD 
350 Pacific Avenue 
0165 / 006 
C-2 (Community Business) 
Scott Sanchez - 628.652.7384 or scott.sanchez@sfgov.org   

Dear Jonathan Levy: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination (LoD) regarding the property at 350 Pacific 
Avenue (Property). This parcel is located in the C-2 (Community Business) Zoning District, Washington – 
Broadway Special Use District (SUD), and 65-A Height and Bulk District. The request seeks confirmation that a 
proposed Electric Vehicle (EV) fast charging station is allowed on the subject property as a Gas Station use.  

Background 
On November 21, 2019, the Planning Commission granted a Conditional Use Authorization to allow the 
extension of a temporary Public Parking Lot on the Property for up to 5 years. As described in your request, EVgo 
proposes to change the use of the Property to an EV fast charging station with approximately twenty-five (25) 
charging stalls. A minimum of five (5) charging stalls will be available to the pubic while approximately twenty 
(20) would be reserved for a “private fleet partner” that would operate under a Transportation Network Company 
(TNC) license and provide rides to the public. In subsequent communications with Planning Department staff, it 
was noted that while the facility will primarily serve the private fleet partner, this may change over time such that 
the facility may primarily serve the public in the future.  

Planning Code Definitions 
Planning Code Section 102 defines Gas Station as follows: 

A Retail Automotive Use that provides motor fuels, lubricating oils, air, and water directly into motor 
vehicles and without providing Automotive Repair services, and which also includes self-service operations 
that sell motor fuel only. This use is subject to the controls in Sections 202.2(b) and 187.1. 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Jonathan Levy 
EVgo Services, LLC 
Jonathan.Levy@evgo.com 

January 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
350 Pacific Avenue 

It is noted that a Gas Station is a Retail Automotive Use, and that Planning Code Section 102 defines Retail Use as 
follows: 

A Commercial Use that includes uses that involve the sale of goods, typically in small quantities, or services 
directly to the ultimate consumer or end user including, but not limited to, Retail Sales and Service Uses, 
some Entertainment, Arts and Recreation Uses, and Retail Automotive Uses. 

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 210.1 and Table 210.1, a Gas Station is a principally permitted use on the 
subject property. 

Planning Code Section 102 defines Utility Installation as follows: 

A Utility and Infrastructure Use that includes, but is not necessarily limited to, water, gas, electric, 
transportation, or communications utilities, or public service facility, provided that operating requirements 
necessitate placement at this location. This use does not include Wireless Telecommunications Services 
Facilities, or Public Transportation Facilities, as defined in this Section of the Code. 

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 210.1 and Table 210.1, a Utility Installation is a principally permitted use on 
the subject property. Further, such use is not required to be within an enclosed building.  

Determination 
Based upon the information provided in your request letter, it is my determination that the proposed EV fast 
charging station is considered to be a Utility Installation, which is a principally permitted use on the Property. 
This is because the proposed facility will primarily serve private fleet vehicles and will not primarily operate as a 
retail use serving the ultimate consumer or end user. To the extent that the facility does serve as a retail use 
through the publicly accessible charging stalls, the facility may be classified as a Gas Station, as the proposed 
number of spaces and desire to flex over time represent a context beyond what would be considered an 
accessory use.  

Given that both a Utility Installation and Gas Station are principally permitted on the Property and you have 
indicated an intent to flexibly utilize the Property for both fleet vehicle and public charging, you may seek a 
building permit application to allow both uses on the Property simultaneously. Please note that any such 
authorization would be considered a change of use and subject to review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) and all other relevant controls of the Planning Code. Please also note that such a change of 
use would abandon the existing Public Parking Lot use pursuant to Planning Code Section 178(d).  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonathan Levy 
EVgo Services, LLC 
Jonathan.Levy@evgo.com 

January 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
350 Pacific Avenue 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:    

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 

3  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
