Letter of Determination 

April 8, 2021 

Johnson Wong, CFO 
North East Medical Services 
2171 Junipero Serra Blvd, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94014 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-002256ZAD 
3921 Geary Boulevard 
1541/040 
Geary Boulevard Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) 
Moses Corrette- (628) 652-7356 or moses.corrette@sfgov.org  

Dear Mr. Wong: 

This  letter  is  in  response  to  your  request  for  a  Letter  of  Determination  regarding  the  property  at  3921  Geary 
Boulevard. The subject property is located in the Geary Boulevard Neighborhood Commercial District (NCD) and 
40-X Height and Bulk District. The request seeks confirmation that a proposed  senior day center  would be an 
allowed use on the subject property.  

Background 
Based upon Assessor’s Records, the subject property contains a 2-story, 13,232 square foot building constructed 
in 1988 that has historically contained a single tenant (previously Pacific Union Bank and currently a Salvation 
Army  retail  store).  In  your  request,  the  proposed  senior  day  center  would  occupy  the  entire  building  and  is 
identified  as  a  PACE  Center  that  would  offer  health  education,  nutrition  education,  exercise  and  recreation 
programs, and to a minor degree some medical screening and clinic functions. 

From the National Institutes of Health: PACE--the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly--provides integrated 
comprehensive  healthcare  services  to  the  frail  elderly  on  a  capitated  basis.  Begun  in  the  early  1970s  in  San 
Francisco's  Chinatown,  PACE  today  comprises  many  individual  programs  across the  nation.  PACE's  goal  is to 
provide  participants  with  the  healthcare  services  they  need  for  the  highest  possible  level  of  functioning  and 
autonomy.  A  typical  PACE  program  is  divided  into  sites,  each  of  which  serves  120  to  150  participants.  Most 
participants  come  several  times  a  week  to  the  site's  adult  day  care  center,  where  they  see  members  of  an 
interdisciplinary  team  that  includes  physicians,  nurses,  social  workers,  therapists,  and  others.  Home  care  is 
provided to participants unable to attend the center.1 

1 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10187519/ accessed 3/11/21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Johnson Wong 
2171 Junipero Serra Blvd, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94014 

April 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
3921 Geary Boulevard 

Planning Code Definitions 
Planning Code Section 102 defines Community Facility as follows: 

An Institutional Community Use that includes community  clubhouses, neighborhood centers, community cultural 
centers, or other community facilities not publicly owned but open for public use in which the chief activity is not 
carried  on  as  a  gainful  business  and  whose  chief  function  is  the  gathering  of  persons  from  the  immediate 
neighborhood in a structure for the purposes of recreation, culture, social interaction, health care, or education other 
than Institutional Uses as defined in this Section. 

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 739 and Table 739, a Community Facility is a principally permitted use at all 
levels on the subject property. Per Planning Code Section 311, neighborhood notification is required to establish 
a Community Facility on the subject property.  

Planning Code Section 102 defines Health Service as follows:  

A  Retail  Sales  and  Service  Use  that  provides  medical  and  allied  health  services  to  the  individual  by  physicians, 
surgeons, dentists, podiatrists, psychologists, psychiatrists, acupuncturists, chiropractors, or any other health-care 
professionals when licensed by a State-sanctioned Board overseeing the provision of medically oriented services. It 
includes a clinic, primarily providing outpatient care in medical, psychiatric, or other health services, and not part of 
a Hospital or medical center, as defined by this Section of the Code. 

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 739 and Table 739, a Health Service is a principally permitted use at all levels 
on the subject property. Based upon information provided in your request, it is understood that any Health Service 
use of the property would be minor and incidental in nature (consisting of only a few exam rooms) and would 
function as an accessory use to the primary use of the property.  

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 739 and Table 739, non-residential uses with a Gross Floor Area of 6,000 or 
more require a Conditional Use Authorization in the underlying Zoning District. As noted previously, the existing 
use  size,  at  approximately  13,232  square  feet,  exceeds  this  threshold.  Based  upon  available  information,  the 
existing  use  size  was  established  prior  to  current  regulations.  Pursuant  to  an  interpretation  of  Planning  Code 
Section 121.2 (dated 10/93) “a conforming use which was over the threshold, but which predated the use size limit 
requirement  could  change  to  a  different  use  occupying  the  same  floor  area  without  a  conditional  use 
authorization as long as there was no significant increase in the floor area.” 

Determination 
Based  upon  the  information  provided  in  your  request  letter  (and  further  detailed  by  the  NIH),  it  is  my 
determination  that  the  proposed  senior  day center  is  considered  a  Community  Facility  and  thus a  principally 
permitted  use  at  all  levels  on  the  subject  property.  Additionally,  while  the  subject  property  exceeds  the  non-
residential use size threshold for the underlying zoning district, the proposed change of use from the current non-
residential use to a Community Facility would not require a Conditional Use Authorization as long as there is no 
significant  increase  in  the  floor  area.  Based  upon  the  information  contained  in  your  request,  the  Planning 
Department is not aware of any other requirements for the proposed use that would trigger a Conditional Use 
Authorization.  

2  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Johnson Wong 
2171 Junipero Serra Blvd, Suite 700 
Daly City, CA 94014 

April 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
3921 Geary Boulevard 

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not a permit 
to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be secured before 
work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Scott F. Sanchez 
Acting Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Moses Corrette, Planner 

3  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
