Letter of Determination 

March 18, 2021 

A. Stevan Patrick 
The Midglen Studio 
831 Midglen Way 
Woodside, CA 94062 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2021-000707ZAD 
488 Bryant Street 
3763/018 
CMUO (Central SOMA Mixed-Use Office) Zoning District 
Central SoMa Special Use District  
Elton Wu - 628-652-7415 or Elton.Wu@sfgov.org   

Dear A. Stevan Patrick: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the permitted uses in the existing 
three-story industrial building at 488 Bryant Street. The Property is located in the CMUO (Central SOMA Mixed-
Use Office) Zoning District, the Central SoMa Special Use District, and an 85-X Height and Bulk District.  

Per your request, you seek confirmation as to whether “Hero Foods” is a Light Manufacturing Use and is 
permitted in the CMUO Zoning District. Additionally, you request confirmation that the change of use would not 
result in a conversion or loss of Production, Distribution and Repair (PDR) Use per Planning Code Section 202.8   

Background 
All three floors of the existing building were converted from Business Service to Arts Activity through Building 
Permit No. 201607273538. The third floor was converted back to a Business Service through Building Permit No. 
201612084440. Both Arts Activity and Business Service fall under the PDR land use category. Therefore, the entire 
building is currently occupied by PDR uses. 

As of July 1, 2016, the subject property was zoned SLI. The existing building is approximately 6,900 square feet 
per the City Assessor’s records. As such, the property is subject to the requirements of Planning Code Section 
202.8 regarding the replacement of PDR uses of more than 5,000 square feet.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. Stevan Patrick 
831 Midglen Way 
San Francisco, CA  94107 

March 18, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
488 Bryant Street - ZAD Request 

Your letter describes Hero Foods as Hero Foods is an innovative food processing company that is developing a 
proprietary line of alternate options to flour-based foods, including pasta, muffins, waffles, bread, and pizza 
crusts. The building at 488 Bryant is proposed to house the production facility and associated support functions. 
Raw ingredients are received, processed, baked, tested, packaged, and then distributed to retailers, food service 
companies, and restaurants. 

The ground floor will be used predominantly for receiving, storage, distribution, and utilities. The 2nd and 3rd 
floors will contain a mix of production areas, containing ovens, refrigerators, freezers, mixers, and proofers, as 
well as quality assurance and support services. 

Your letter states that Hero Foods may be considered a Light Manufacturing use. Planning Code Section 102 
defines Light Manufacturing Use as: 

“Industrial Use that provides for the fabrication or production of goods, by hand or machinery, for distribution 
to retailers or wholesalers for resale off the premises, primarily involving the assembly, packaging, repairing, 
or processing of previously prepared materials. Light manufacturing uses include production and custom 
activities usually involving individual or special design, or handiwork, such as the following fabrication or 
production activities, as may be defined by the Standard Industrial Classification Code Manual as light 
manufacturing uses: 
a)  Food processing; 
b)  Apparel and other garment products; 
c)  Furniture and fixtures; 
d)  Printing and publishing of books or newspapers; 
e)  Leather products; 
f)  Pottery; 
g)  Glass-blowing; 
h)  Commercial laundry, rug cleaning, and dry cleaning facility; 
i)  Measuring, analyzing, and controlling instruments; photographic, medical, and optical goods; watches 

and clocks; or 

j)  Manufacture of cannabis products or cannabis extracts that are derived without the use of volatile 

organic compounds (any use requiring License Type 6—Manufacturer 1, as defined in California Business 
and Professions Code, Division 10).” 

Planning Code Section 102 also defines Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 as: 

“An Industrial use that involves the processing of agricultural products and beverages with a low potential 
for noxious fumes, noise, and nuisance to the surrounding area, including but not limited to bottling plants, 
breweries, dairy products plant, malt manufacturing or processing plant, fish curing, smoking, or drying, 
cereal manufacturing, liquor distillery, manufacturing of felt or shoddy, processing of hair or products 
derived from hair, pickles, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, soda or soda compounds, meat products, and fish oil. 
This use does not include the processing of wood pulp, and is subject to the operating conditions outlined 
in Section 202.2(d).” 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. Stevan Patrick 
831 Midglen Way 
San Francisco, CA  94107 

March 18, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
488 Bryant Street - ZAD Request 

Determination 
Based upon the submitted materials and information above, it is my determination that Hero Foods would be 
defined as either a Light Manufacturing use or an Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 use, depending on 
additional details provided as part of a change of use building permit. Both uses are principally permitted in the 
CMUO Zoning District. The existing building is fully occupied by PDR uses, and both Light Manufacturing and 
Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 uses are also classified as PDR uses. Therefore, changing the use of the 
entire building to Light Manufacturing or Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 would not constitute a 
conversion of PDR use per Planning Code Section 202.8.  

Because both Light Industrial and Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 are in the Industrial Use category of 
Planning Code Section 848, and Arts Activity and Business Service are in the Entertainment, Arts and Recreation 
category and Sales and Service Use category, a building permit to change the use to either Light Manufacturing 
or Agricultural and Beverage Processing 1 at 488 Bryant Street would require neighborhood notification per 
Planning Code Section 311(b)(1)(B).  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Elton Wu, Assistant Planner 
Neighborhood Groups 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
