Letter of Determination 

January 7, 2022 

John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600  
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address: 
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear John Kevlin: 

2021-010926ZAD 
490 Brannan St   
3776 / 025 
Central SoMa MUO (Mixed-Use Office)  
Central SoMa Special Use District 
N/A  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination (LoD) regarding the property at 490 Brannan 
Street. The request seeks a determination as to whether the proposed revision to the project (“Project”) authorized 
by  Planning  Commission  Motion  No.  20987  (“Motion”)  is  a  significant  modification  that  requires  a  new 
authorization  from  the  Planning  Commission.  The  revision  in  question  is  the  change  of  use  from  Office  to 
Laboratory with no other changes to the approved Project.  

On September 9, 2021, the Planning Commission approved a Large Project Authorization (per the Motion) for the 
Project to demolish the existing building on the site and construct a new 12-story, 185-foot tall, mixed-use office 
building with 269,296 square feet of Office use, 12,506 square feet of Production, Distribution, and Repair (“PDR”) 
use, 5,391 square feet of Child Care Facility use, and 3,272 square feet of Retail use. The Project will also include 
5,602 square feet of Privately-Owned Public Open Space (POPOS). Additionally, the Project will provide 24 off-
street parking spaces and 6 loading spaces, 86 bicycle spaces (60 Class 1, 26 Class II), 4 showers, and 24 lockers. 

Exhibit A of the Motion includes a standard section regarding “CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS” that states:  

“Changes to the approved plans may be approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator. 
Significant changes and modifications of conditions shall require Planning Commission approval of a new 
Large Project authorization.” 

As further described below, the proposed Office use was not a Planning Code requirement or a condition of 
approval of the Planning Commission’s authorization of the Project. Additionally, Laboratory use is principally 
permitted in the CMUO zoning district per Planning Code Section 848. 

Section 8 of the Motion details that per Planning Code Section 329(d), the Planning Commission may grant 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

January 7, 2022 
Letter of Determination  
490 Brannan Street 

certain exceptions to the provisions of the Planning Code through a Large Project Authorization. Pursuant to 
Section 329(e), within the Central SoMa SUD, certain additional exceptions are available for projects on Key Sites 
that provide qualified amenities in excess of what is required by the Code. Qualified additional amenities that 
may be provided by these Key Sites include: affordable housing beyond what is required under Section 415 et 
seq.; land dedication pursuant to Section 413.7 for the construction of affordable housing; PDR at a greater 
amount and/or lower rent than is otherwise required under Sections 202.8 or 249.78(c)(5); public parks, 
recreation centers, or plazas; and improved pedestrian networks.  

Section 8 explains that the Project (a Key Site) meets this qualified amenity requirement, and would include 
12,506 square feet of PDR use, 10,000 square feet of which would be provided below market rate. Section 8 
further explains that the amenity is specifically called for within the Central SoMa Area Plan. Converting the 
Office space to Laboratory space will maintain the Project’s qualified amenity for its necessary Key Site 
exceptions. 

Converting  the  Office  space  to  Laboratory  space  has  no  impact  on  the  Project’s  massing  or  exterior  design. 
Additionally, the change from Office to Laboratory use has practically no impact to the internal configuration of 
the Project either, as the remaining Project components will continue to occupy their approved locations and 
layouts. Finally, converting the Office space to Laboratory space does not conflict with any conditions of approval 
of the Motion, and therefore requires no modification of those conditions of approval.  

Therefore, based on the information above, it is my determination that a change of use from Office to Laboratory 
use within the Project is not a significant modification that requires Planning Commission approval of a new 
Large Project Authorization per the Motion. Instead, the revision is a change that may be approved 
administratively by the Zoning Administrator. Such change of use is principally permitted by the Planning Code, 
does not impact the qualified amenity required for the Project to be eligible for its necessary Key Site exceptions, 
and does not conflict with any conditions of approval for the Project.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not a 
permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be secured 
before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal. 

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc: 

Neighborhood Groups 
Xinyu Liang, Planning Department 
Ella Samonsky, Planning Department 

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
