Letter of Determination 

July 2, 2021 

Flynn Rosenthal 
DSK Architects 
926 Natoma Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2020-011212ZAD 
535 Powell Street 
0284/002 
RC-4 (Residential-Commercial; High Density) 
Kevin Guy – kevin.guy@sfgov.org  

Dear Mr. Rosenthal: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 535 Powell Street. 
The subject property is located in the RC-4 (Residential-Commercial; High Density) Zoning District and 65-A Height 
and Bulk District. The request seeks confirmation as to whether the following uses are permitted on the subject 
property, as well as any restrictions that may be associated with each use category: 

•  Entertainment, Arts, and Recreation 
•  Retail Sales and Service 
•  Design Professional 

Background 
The subject property is developed with a three story-over basement building constructed in 1911. It should be 
noted that the property is designated as an historic resource and is located within the Lower Nob Hill Apartment 
Hotel  Historic  District.  Therefore,  any  proposed  exterior  modifications  to  the  building  would  be  subject  to 
preservation  review  pursuant  to  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act.  In  addition,  any  Formula  Retail  use 
would  require  Conditional  Use  Authorization,  regardless  of  whether  the  underlying  use  being  proposed  is 
principally permitted on the property. A Formula Retail use is specifically defined in Planning Code Section 303.1, 
but is generally understood as a “chain” retail operator with eleven or more locations throughout the world.  

Entertainment, Arts, and Recreation 
Entertainment, Arts, and Recreation is a use category defined by Planning Code Section 102 as follows: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Flynn Rosenthal 
DSK Architects 
926 Natoma Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

July 2, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
535 Powell Street 

A  Use  Category  that  includes  Arts  Activities,  General  Entertainment,  Livery  Stables,  Movie  Theater,  Nighttime 
Entertainment, Open Recreation Area, Outdoor Entertainment, Passive Outdoor Recreation and Sports Stadiums. 

Most individual uses within the Entertainment, Arts, and Recreation use category are principally permitted at the 
property, with the exception of uses identified in the table below.  

Entertainment, Outdoor 

Livery Stable 

Sports Stadium 

Not Permitted 

Not Permitted 

Not Permitted 

Retail Sales and Service 
Retail Sales and Service is a use category defined by Planning Code Section 102 as follows: 

A  Use  Category  that  includes  Arts  Activities,  General  Entertainment,  Livery  Stables,  Movie  Theater,  Nighttime 
Entertainment, Open Recreation Area, Outdoor Entertainment, Passive Outdoor Recreation and Sports Stadiums. 

Most individual uses within the Retail Sales and Service use category are principally permitted at the property on 
the  ground  floor  or  below.  All  uses  within  this  category  that  would  otherwise  be  principally  permitted  on  the 
ground floor require Conditional Use Authorization from the Planning Commission if they would be located  on 
the  second  floor  or  above.  Certain  Retail  Sales  and  Service  uses  are  subject  to  the  location  and  operational 
requirements  of  Planning  Code  Section  202.2  (excerpt  attached  as  Appendix  “A”).  The  table  below  identifies 
specific uses that are not permitted on this property, as well as uses that require Conditional Use Authorization 
from the Planning Commission and are subject to certain location restrictions.  

Adult Business 

Cat Boarding 

Hotel 

Kennel 

Not Permitted 

Not Permitted 

Conditional Use Authorization Required 

Not Permitted 

Massage Establishment 

Not Permitted 

Mortuary 

Motel 

Not Permitted 

Not Permitted 

Storage, Self 

Conditional Use Authorization Required 

Tobacco Paraphernalia Store 

Conditional  Use  Authorization  Required;  Not 
Permitted above the second floor 

Design Professional 
A Design Professional is an individual use defined by Planning Code Section 102 as follows: 

A  Non-Retail  Sales  and  Service  Use  that  provides  professional  design  services  to  the  general  public  or  to  other 
businesses and includes architectural, landscape architectural, engineering, interior design, and industrial design 
services. It does not include (1) the design services of graphic artists or other visual artists which are included in the 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flynn Rosenthal 
DSK Architects 
926 Natoma Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

July 2, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
535 Powell Street 

definition  of  Arts  Activities;  or  (2)  the  services  of  advertising  agencies  or  other  services  which  are  included  in  the 
definition of Professional Service or Non-Retail Professional Service, Financial Service or Medical Service. 

A Design Professional Use is principally permitted on the property. 

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Scott F. Sanchez 
Acting Zoning Administrator 

Attachments:  Appendix A - Location and Operating Conditions for Specified Retail Sales and Service Uses 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Kevin Guy, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flynn Rosenthal 
DSK Architects 
926 Natoma Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

July 2, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
535 Powell Street 

Appendix A 
Location and Operating Conditions for Specified Retail Sales and Service Uses 
(Excerpt from Planning Code Section 202.2) 

   (a)   Retail Sales and Service Uses. The Retail Sales and Service Uses listed below shall be subject 
to the corresponding conditions: 
      (1)   Eating and Drinking Uses. Eating and Drinking Uses, as defined in Section 102, shall be 
subject to the following conditions: 
         (A)   The business operator shall maintain the main entrance to the building and all sidewalks 
abutting the subject property in a clean and sanitary condition in compliance with the Department of 
Public Works Street and Sidewalk Maintenance Standards. In addition, the operator shall be 
responsible for daily monitoring of the sidewalk within a one-block radius of the subject business to 
maintain the sidewalk free of paper or other litter associated with the business during business hours, 
in accordance with Article 1, Section 34 of the San Francisco Police Code. 
            For information about compliance, contact the Bureau of Street Use and Mapping, Department 
of Public Works. 
         (B)   When located within an enclosed space, the premises shall be adequately soundproofed or 
insulated for noise and operated so that incidental noise shall not be audible beyond the premises or in 
other sections of the building, and fixed-source equipment noise shall not exceed the decibel levels 
specified in the San Francisco Noise Control Ordinance. 
            For information about compliance of fixed mechanical objects such as rooftop air conditioning, 
restaurant ventilation systems, and motors and compressors with acceptable noise levels, contact the 
Environmental Health Section, Department of Public Health. 
            For information about compliance with construction noise requirements, contact the 
Department of Building Inspection. 
            For information about compliance with the requirements for amplified sound, including music 
and television, contact the Police Department. 
         (C)   While it is inevitable that some low level of odor may be detectable to nearby residents and 
passersby, appropriate odor control equipment shall be installed in conformance with the approved 
plans and maintained to prevent any significant noxious or offensive odors from escaping the premises. 
            For information about compliance with odor or other chemical air pollutant standards, contact 
the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) and Code Enforcement, Planning 
Department. 
         (D)   Garbage, recycling, and compost containers shall be kept within the premises and hidden 
from public view, and placed outside only when being serviced by the disposal company. Trash shall 
be contained and disposed of pursuant to garbage and recycling receptacles guidelines set forth by the 
Department of Public Works. 
            For information about compliance, contact the Bureau of Street Use and Mapping, Department 
of Public Works. 
      (2)   Pharmacy. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Code, a pharmacy may operate 
on a 24-hour basis as a permitted use provided that the following conditions are met during any period 
between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in which the pharmacy is open for business: 
         (A)   A pharmacist licensed by the State of California in accordance with the California Business 
and Professions Code is on duty on the premises; 
         (B)   The pharmacy provides prescription drugs for retail sale; and 

4  

 
 
  
 
Flynn Rosenthal 
DSK Architects 
926 Natoma Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 

July 2, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
535 Powell Street 

         (C)   The pharmacy provides adequate lighting and security for the safety of customers, residents, 
and the adjoining property, including adequate lighting and security for any parking facilities provided. 
Such lighting and security may not negatively impact neighborhood character. 
      (3)   Motel. The entrance to a motel must be within 200 feet of and immediately accessible from a 
major thoroughfare as designated in the General Plan. 
      (4)   Massage Establishments. Any Massage Establishment found to be operating, conducted, or 
maintained contrary to this Code or Health Code Article 29 shall be found to be in violation of this 
Code and will be subject to enforcement as provided in Section 176 of the Planning Code. For three 
years following closure of a Massage Establishment for violations of this Code or the Health Code no 
new Massage Establishment shall be approved at the site where the former Massage Establishment was 
closed. 
      (5)   Cannabis Retail. A Cannabis Retail establishment must meet all of the following conditions: 
         (A)   A Cannabis Retail establishment must apply for a permit from the Office of Cannabis 
pursuant to Article 16 of the Police Code prior to submitting an application to the Planning 
Department. 
         (B)   The parcel containing the Cannabis Retail Use shall not be located within a 600-foot radius 
of a parcel containing an existing School, public or private, unless a State licensing authority specifies 
a different radius, in which case that different radius shall apply. In addition, the parcel containing the 
Cannabis Retail Use shall not be located within a 600-foot radius of a parcel for which a valid permit 
from the City’s Office of Cannabis for a Cannabis Retailer or a Medicinal Cannabis Retailer has been 
issued, except that a Cannabis Retail Use may be located in the same place of business as one or more 
other establishments holding valid permits from the City’s Office of Cannabis to operate as Cannabis 
Retailers or Medicinal Cannabis Retailers, where the place of business contains a minimum of 350 
square feet per Cannabis Retail or Medical Cannabis Dispensary Use, provided that such locations are 
permitted by state law. There shall be no minimum radius from a Cannabis Retail Use to an existing 
day care center or youth center unless a State licensing authority specifies a minimum radius, in which 
case that minimum radius shall apply. 
         (C)   Cannabis may be consumed or smoked on site pursuant to authorization by the Department 
of Public Health as applicable. 
      (6)   Liquor Stores. Liquor Stores, as defined in Section 102, shall comply with the following 
requirements: 
         (A)   Employees of the establishment shall walk a 100-foot radius from the premises sometime 
between 30 minutes after closing time and 8:00 a.m. the following morning, and shall pick up and 
dispose of any discarded beverage containers and other trash left by patrons. 
         (B)   The business operator shall provide outside lighting sufficient to illuminate street and 
sidewalk areas and adjacent parking as appropriate to maintain security, without disturbing area 
residents. 
         (C)   The store frontage shall comply with the visibility requirements of Section 145.1(c)(6) and 
the signage requirements of Article 6 of this Code. In addition, all advertising and signage shall be 
placed and maintained in a manner that ensures that law enforcement personnel have a clear and 
unobstructed view of the interior of the premises, including the area in which the cash registers are 
maintained, from the exterior public sidewalk or entrance to the premises. 

5  

 
 
  
 
