Letter of Determination 

December 2, 2021 

Sigrid R. Waggener 
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP 
One Embarcadero Center, 30th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

2021-012013ZAD 
555 Fulton Street 
0794/059 and 060 
Hayes-Gough Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) District 
Residential Transit-Oriented (RTO) District 
Fulton Street Grocery Store Special Use District (SUD) 

Dear Sigrid Waggener,  

You requested further clarity on the Planning Commission (“Commission”) approval of the Conditional Use 
Authorization to establish a Formula Retail Grocery Store Use (dba Trader Joe’s) at 555 Fulton Street, which was 
unanimously approved per Motion No. 20946 (“Motion”) on July 22, 2021.  

Specifically, you asked for clarification of the public hearing required by Condition of Approval No. 14 (“the 
Condition”), which reads as follows: 

Parking Attendant and Informational Hearingʏ The sponsor shall have a parking attendant on site during 
hours of operation to help direct and monitor cars entering and exiting the garage. The sponsor shall 
monitor conditions related to traffic, congestion, and pedestrian conflicts. After a period of six months from 
the date of store opening, provide a monitoring report to the Planning Department. The report will be 
presented to the Planning Commission at a public informational hearing within one year of the store 
opening. 

I reviewed the Condition and the full Motion and find that the “public informational hearing” contemplated by 
the Condition is just that: informational. While the language of the Condition is silent as to whether or not the 
matter is to be a separate agenda item or included for discussion in a routine calendar item (for example, the 
weekly Director’s Report), it is nonetheless unambiguous that the Condition requires no specific action by the 
Commission. The Condition only requires that this item appear on a Commission hearing agenda for 
information and/or discussion only within one year of the store opening. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sigrid R. Waggener 
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP 
One Embarcadero Center, 30th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

December 2, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
555 Fulton Street 

Feel free to contact me or Daniel Sider at dan.sider@sfgov.org or (628) 652-7539 if you have any additional 
questions or comments regarding this matter 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

555 FULTON ST DEVELOPMENT LLC, 950 TOWER LN STE 870, FOSTER CITY, CA 94404 (Property Owner) 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
