Letter of Determination 

September 15, 2021 

Matthew Chen, Moichor Inc. 
626 Bancroft Way, Suite A 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-004097ZAD 
555 De Haro Street 
4007/002 
PDR-1-G (Production, Distribution, Repair – 1 - General) 
Monica Giacomucci – (628) 652-7414 or monica.giacomucci@sfgov.org  

Dear Matthew Chen: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 555 De Haro 
Street, which is located in a PDR-1-G Zoning District. The request seeks confirmation that Moichor, “a research 
and development, veterinary reference lab,” would be considered a Laboratory use for the purposes of the 
Planning Code, and not a Life Science use. Moichor is a tech-driven animal diagnostics company developing 
highly responsive diagnostic tools that allow veterinarians and pet owners to advance the care of pets. Moichor’s 
laboratory would process animal blood, tissue, or other specimens gathered off-site by veterinary clinics, only 
outputting data for veterinary clinics to view and analyze within their own off-site facilities. Moichor would not 
use 555 De Haro Street to manufacture any physical products. 

Planning Code Section 102 defines “Life Science” as follows: 

A Non-Retail Sales and Service Use that involves the integration of natural and engineering sciences and 
advanced biological techniques using organisms, cells, and parts thereof for products and services. This 
includes the creation of products and services used to analyze and detect various illnesses, the design of 
products that cure illnesses, and/or the provision of capital goods and services, machinery, instruments, 
software, and reagents related to research and production. Life Science uses may utilize office, laboratory, 
light manufacturing, or other types of space. As a subset of Life Science uses, Life Science laboratories 
typically include biological laboratories and animal facilities or vivaria, as described in the Laboratory 
definition Subsections (d) and (e). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Chen, Moichor Inc. 
626 Bancroft Way, Suite A 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

September 15, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
555 De Haro Street 

Laboratory uses are principally permitted with no use size limitations in the PDR-1-G Zoning District. Planning 
Code Section 102 defines “Laboratory” as follows:  

A Non-Retail Sales and Services Use intended or primarily suitable for scientific research. The space 
requirements of uses within this category include specialized facilities and/or built accommodations that 
distinguish the space from Office uses, Light Manufacturing, or Heavy Manufacturing. Examples of 
laboratories include the following: 

a)  Chemistry, biochemistry, or analytical laboratory; 

b)  Engineering laboratory; 

c)  Development laboratory; 

d)  Biological laboratories including those classified by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National 

Institutes of Health (NIH) as Biosafety level 1, Biosafety level 2, or Biosafety level 3;  

e)  Animal facility or vivarium, including laboratories classified by the CDC/NIH as Animal Biosafety level 1, 

Animal Biosafety level 2, or Animal Biosafety level 3; 

f)  Support laboratory; 

g)  Quality assurance/Quality control laboratory; 

h)  Core laboratory; and 

i)  Cannabis testing facility (any use requiring License Type 8—Testing Laboratory, as defined in California 

Business and Professions Code, Division 10). 

On November 6, 2020, the Zoning Administrator issued a Letter of Determination that clarified the characteristics 
of, and distinctions between, Life Science and Laboratory uses as defined in Planning Code Section 102. That 
determination found that a use must involve the production of final, commercial products or the provision of 
commercial services on-site to be classified as a Life Science use and that such on-site activities are generally 
integral to the definition of Life Science.   

Determination  
Based on the information provided in the request letter and supplementary research, Moichor’s intended use of 
555 De Haro Street would constitute a Laboratory use (chemistry, biochemistry, or analytical laboratory) as 
defined in Planning Code Section 102. Any office space associated with the Laboratory use must meet the 
accessory use provisions of Planning Code Sections 204 and 204.3. A building permit is required to establish the 
Laboratory use, which will be reviewed for consistency with this determination and applicable Planning Code 
requirements once it is filed.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Matthew Chen, Moichor Inc. 
626 Bancroft Way, Suite A 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

September 15, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
555 De Haro Street 

a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc: 

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 

3 

