Letter of Determination 

August 30, 2022 

Josh Haibach 
Bad Axe Throwing 
654 Cedar Avenue 
Burlington, Ontario L7T 2R5 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear Josh Haibach: 

2022-006333ZAD 
604 3rd Street 
3787/002 
CMUO (Central SoMa Mixed Use - Office) 
Central SoMa Special Use District 
Monica Giacomucci – 628-652-7414 or monica.giacomucci@sfgov.org 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 604 3rd Street. The 
request seeks confirmation of the following: 1) whether the proposed axe throwing facility (doing business as 
“Bad Axe Throwing”) qualifies as a General Entertainment or Entertainment, Other land use, and 2) whether 
General Entertainment and/or Entertainment, Other land uses are principally permitted in the Central SoMa 
Mixed Use - Office Zoning District (CMUO) and the Central SoMa Special Use District. 

Bad Axe Throwing is an axe throwing facility where qualified instructors assist attendees of private events in 
recreational axe throwing. Corporate team-building events would be the primary customer base, but other 
customers would also have access to the facility by booking in advance. Customers will throw axes at targets 
within caged-in throwing lanes under the supervision of safety-trained professionals. The facility will apply for a 
Type 42 License from the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) which would authorize the 
sale of beer and wine for consumption on the premises. 

The request questions whether Bad Axe Throwing could be categorized as Entertainment, Other as defined in 
Planning Code Section 890.37. The Entertainment, Other definition is applicable only in the Chinatown Mixed-
Use District. CMUO is not a Chinatown Mixed-Use District, so the definition does not apply. 

Entertainment and Recreation uses are generally principally permitted in a CMUO Zoning District (exceptions 
include Nighttime Entertainment, Outdoor Entertainment, Open Recreation Area, and Sports Stadium).  General 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Josh Haibach 
Bad Axe Throwing 
654 Cedar Avenue 
Burlington, ON L7T 2R5 

August 30, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
2022-006333ZAD 

Entertainment is a specific land use under the broader Entertainment and Recreation Use category. Planning 
Code Section 102 defines General Entertainment as follows: 

A Retail Entertainment, Arts and Recreation Use that provides entertainment or leisure pursuits to the 
general public including dramatic and musical performances where alcohol is not served during 
performances, arcades that provide eleven or more amusement game devices (such as video games, 
pinball machines, or other such similar mechanical and electronic amusement devices), billiard halls, 
bowling alleys, skating rinks, and mini-golf, when conducted within a completely enclosed building, and 
which is adequately soundproofed or insulated so as to confine incidental noise to the premises. 
Mechanical amusement devices are further regulated in Sections 1036 through 1036.24 of the Police Code. 

Because Bad Axe Throwing would provide entertainment or leisure pursuits to the general public, and because 
an axe throwing facility can reasonably be compared to recreational activities such as bowling, skating, and mini 
golf, axe throwing is best considered a General Entertainment land use. 

Bad Axe Throwing will serve beer and wine for on-site consumption with a Type 42 ABC license. A retail facility 
which serves alcohol but does not serve food is defined as a Bar under Planning Code Section 102. General 
Entertainment excludes alcohol sales, so alcoholic beverage service related to any General Entertainment use 
must be permitted as a Bar. Bar uses are principally permitted in a CMUO Zoning District up to 25,000 gross 
square feet per lot. As Bad Axe Throwing proposes to occupy an existing 2,140 square foot building at 604 3rd St., 
it would not be possible for the Bar use to exceed 25,000 square feet. 

Neither Bar nor General Entertainment uses are addressed in the Central SoMa Special Use District per Planning 
Code Section 249.78, so the regulations of the CMUO Zoning District in Planning Code Section 848 prevail. 

Therefore, Bad Axe Throwing is principally permitted at 604 3rd Street as a General Entertainment and Bar use in 
the CMUO Zoning District and Central SoMa Special Use District. 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Tina Tam 
Acting Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

 Monica Giacomucci, Planner 

2  

                                                                                                                                                                 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
