Letter of Determination 

November 22, 2023 

Chris Mak 
chrismaksf@gmail.com 

Record No.: 
Site Address: 
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2023-009722ZAD 
635 Brannan Street 
3785/017 
MUG (Mixed Use – General) Zoning District 
Central SoMa Special Use District 
Elizabeth Mau – (628) 652-7583 
Elizabeth.Mau@sfgov.org 

Dear Chris Mak: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the subject property (“Property”) 
located at 635 Brannan Street. The request letter seeks confirmation of whether the proposed use, Gym/Fitness, 
is permitted at the Property.  

Planning Code Section 102 defines a Gym as a “Retail Sales and Service Use including a health club, fitness, 
gymnasium, or exercise facility when including equipment and space for weight-lifting and cardiovascular 
activities.” The Property is located within an MUG Zoning District and subject to the land use controls of Planning 
Code Section 831. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 831, a Gym use falls within the broader use category of 
Retail Sales and Service use and is principally permitted up to a total of 25,000 Gross Square Feet of Retail Sales 
and Service uses per lot.1 

While your request did not specify any particular Gym business, please note that, pursuant to Planning Code 
Section 831, any Gym use that meets the definition of Formula Retail (Planning Code Section 303.1) would 
require a Conditional Use Authorization from the Planning Commission. The Property is also required to 
maintain an “active use” on the ground floor pursuant to Planning Code Section 145.1. A Gym use meets the 
definition of an active use and would comply with this requirement. The Property also falls within the Central 
SoMa Special Use District (SUD). However, there are no controls within that SUD that would limit the use of the 
Property as a Gym.  

Finally, the Property is also subject to the use controls of Planning Code Section 202.8, which limits the 
conversion of Production, Distribution, and Repair (PDR) uses, Intuitional Community Uses, and Arts Activities. 

1 Retail Sales and Service Uses are permitted above 25,000 gross square feet per lot only if the ratio of other permitted uses 
to retail is at least 3:1. 

Chris Mak 
chrismaksf@gmail.com 

November 22, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
635 Brannan Street 

However, these provisions do not apply to the Property because the last legal use was a General Retail Sales and 
Service use (dba Performance Bicycle), which was established through Building Permit No. 200411058675. 

Based on the information provided above, it is my determination that a Gym use is principally permitted at the 
Property, subject to the use size and Formula Retail provisions of Planning Code Section 831. While the use may 
be principally permitted, a building permit is required to change the use from General Retail Sales and Service to 
a Gym use.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Property Owner 
Elizabeth Mau, Assistant Planner 
Neighborhood Groups 

2 

