Letter of Determination 

October 19, 2022 

Mark Loper 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2022-003152ZAD 
657, 661 & 667 Howard Street 
3735 / 039, 040, & 041 
C-3-O(SD) District: Downtown Office Special Development 
Nicholas Foster – 628.652.7330, nicholas.foster@sfgov.org

Dear Mark Loper: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the properties at 657, 661, and 
667 Howard Street. The request letter outlines a proposed residential project (“Project”) that would merge the 
three lots to create a single development lot, demolish the existing building at 661 Howard Street, and construct 
a residential tower on that building’s footprint per California Government Code Sections 65915-95918 and 
Planning Code 206.6 for State Density Bonus (SDB) projects.  

Your request seeks determinations on the following Planning Code compliance aspects of the Project’s Base 
Density Study: 

1. Tower separation requirement and Project tower. The Project would merge all three of the individual
parcels to create one single ground parcel and one development site. Furthermore, none of the 
structures at the Property exceed 1.25 times the width of the principal street on which the buildings face: 
Howard Street. According to the Historic Sanborn Map, it is 88.5 feet wide. All three of the existing 
structures on the Property are two stories in height. Therefore, the tower separation requirement will 
apply only at the Property’s boundary with Howard Street & Hawthorne Street, the parcel to the south of 
667 Howard Street, and the parcels to the east of the Property. Because the Project would propose the 
merger of the three parcels, there will be no tower separation issues on interior-facing lots.

Determination  If the three existing lots were merged into a single development lot, then only the portions 
of the lot abutting the right-of-way of a public street or alley would be subject to the tower

Mark Loper 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

October 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
657, 661, & 667 Howard Street 

separation requirements of Planning Code Section 132.1(d)(1). However, where there are two or more 
structures on any lot that are taller than 1.25 times the width of the adjacent principal street(s), each 
structure above such height shall also be set back from the other structures on the same lot according to 
Chart A of Planning Code Section 132.1(d)(1), as if there is an assumed interior property line half-way 
between the closest exterior points of each structure. 

2. 661 Howard Street. The massing on 661 Howard Street can extend to the maximum permitted under the 
Planning Code. It will need to comply with relevant bulk and rear yard setbacks, as well as the setbacks 
required by 132.1. It does not need to include a tower separation setback from 657 Howard Street or 667 
Howard Street.

Determination  If the three existing lots were merged into a single development lot, the buildable 
envelope of the 661 Howard Street portion of the development lot where the new structure would be 
constructed would be subject to all relevant controls under the Planning Code (i.e., required setbacks, 
bulk, rear yard, etc.). Like the response of your first question, setbacks from interior lot lines would not 
apply. However, where there are two or more structures on any lot that are taller than 1.25 times the 
width of the adjacent principal street(s), each structure above such height shall also be set back from the 
other structures on the same lot according to Chart A of Planning Code Section 132.1(d)(1), as if there is 
an assumed interior property line half-way between the closest exterior points of each structure.

3. 657 Howard Street. The Base Density Study can include massing from 657 Howard Street, since the lots 
will be merged and 657 Howard Street will be incorporated into the Project. This is true even if the 
Project’s tower does not extend onto that portion of the Property. The total gross square footage needs 
to be reduced by the amount of TDR transferred from the site, consistent with the Planning Code 
provision that the development potential of a transfer lot is permanently reduced by the amount of 
transferred TDR.

Determination   The Base Density Study must account for the gross floor area of the building at 657 Howard 
Street, such that the maximum permitted density for the development lot must exclude any existing gross 
floor area that will not be demolished as part of the Project. Additionally, the maximum permitted density 
calculation must exclude any floor area that has been transferred from the lot through TDR provisions. 
However, per the response to Question 4 below, any gross floor area approved and transferred to the lot 
prior to the filing of applications for a State Density Bonus project may be included in the Base Density 
Study.

4. FAR and exception to TDR transfer. Because the Planning Code provides an exception to the prohibition 
on transferring TDR to Article 11 Category IV properties, the Base Density Study can assume a massing 
exceeding 6-to-1 FAR on either or both 657 and 667 Howard Street, if the Historic Preservation 
Commission makes a determination during the Project’s entitlement process that seismic reinforcement 
of one or both buildings is necessary to make economically feasible the reinforcement of either building 
to meet the standards for seismic retrofits, per Planning Code Section 128(c)(2). If the Historic 
Preservation Commission does not make such a determination, then the Base Density Study for 667 
Howard Street will be based on a 6-to-1 FAR, and for 657 Howard Street it will be 6-to-1 reduced by the 
amount of TDR sold from the site.

2 

Mark Loper 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

October 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
657, 661, & 667 Howard Street 

Determination  Planning Code Section 128(c)(2) would allow the Historic Preservation Commission 
(HPC) to make a determination that seismic reinforcement of one or both buildings is necessary to make 
economically feasible the reinforcement of either building to meet the standards for seismic retrofits. 
This HPC determination may be made as part of the process to transfer TDR pursuant to Section 128(g), 
and would be required before the Zoning Administrator could issue a Certificate of Transfer. If such a 
transfer is approved by the HPC and the Certificate of Transfer is issued and recorded prior to the first 
application for a State Density Bonus project, then the associated floor area could be considered as part 
of the existing development potential for the development lot and the Base Study would be able to 
include such floor area.  

Your request also seeks determinations on the following Planning Code compliance aspects of the final Project: 

5. Seismic retrofit, 667 Howard Street, and 657 Howard Street. If a seismic retrofit is carried out on 657 
Howard Street, TDR may be used on the footprint of 667 Howard Street to construct a Project that 
exceeds the 6-to-1 FAR on that portion of the Property. The Planning Code provides that the transfer of 
TDR must make the seismic reinforcement or a Significant (Category I or II) or Contributory (Category III 
or IV) Article 11 building economically feasible. It does not provide that the TDR needs to be used on the 
footprint of the building that is itself being seismically retrofitted.
Also, 657 Howard Street would be an integral part of the Project. As part of the Project, 657 Howard 
Street would be on the same ground parcel as the new tower. The existing structure would also be 
physically connected to the tower, at the least through communicating walls if not larger interventions 
to the side facade of 657 Howard Street. Therefore, the three buildings would become one single 
structure on a single development lot.
Finally, the Project is similar to the 706 Mission Street project, which proposed the renovation of the 
Article 11 Category I Aaronson Building and construction of a new adjacent 47-story tower that 
connected to the Aaronson building. Although that project was approved with a Special Use District that 
eliminated the requirement to purchase TDR, its Section 309 Downtown Project Authorization approval 
motion noted that but for the SUD, it would need to (and thus be able to) purchase TDR. 706 Mission 
Street provides recent precedent for this approach being available for the Project.

Determination  If a seismic retrofit were carried out on the building located 657 Howard Street, TDR could 
be used to construct a project that exceeds the 6-to-1 FAR on the 667 Howard Street portion of the 
development lot assuming: 1) the HPC makes the determination that seismic reinforcement of one or 
both buildings is necessary to make economically feasible the reinforcement of either building to meet 
the standards for seismic retrofits, pursuant to Planning Code Section 128(c)(2), and 2) the three subject 
lots are merged into a single development lot.

6. Lot area for FAR and TDR calculations. Because the three existing parcels would be merged, for purposes 
of Planning Code compliance and the TDR program, the Project’s FAR would be calculated based on the 
entire Project site, and not individually based on each parcel.

3 

Mark Loper 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

October 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
657, 661, & 667 Howard Street 

Determination  FAR would be calculated based on the total area of new, single development lot, 
which would be the result of the three merged lots.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Jonathan Vimr, Planner 

4 

