Letter of Determination 

May 13, 2022 

Noa L. Clark 
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP  
P.O. Box 2824 
San Francisco, CA 94126-2824 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-011323ZAD 
666 Mission Street (aka 678 Mission Street) 
3707/021 
C-3-O (Downtown-Office) 
Claudine Asbagh, claudine.asbagh@sfgov.org  

Dear Noa Clark: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 666 Mission 
Street (aka 678 Mission Street). The request seeks confirmation whether: 1) the Planning Code definition of 
“Floor Area, Gross” found in Planning Code Section 102, and specifically that subsection (b)(17) pertaining to 
“cultural, educational, recreational, religious, or social service facilities,” requires such uses to be permanently 
present on site, not allowing for any future change of use; and 2) Transferable Development Rights (TDR) may be 
purchased, transferred to, and used at the subject property in order to allow for other uses not described in that 
subsection (b)(17).  

The definition of “Floor Area, Gross” found in Planning Code Section 102, subsection (b)(17) states that Gross 
Floor Area (GFA) shall not include: 

(17)   Floor area in C-3 and Eastern Neighborhoods Mixed Use Districts permanently devoted to cultural, 
educational, recreational, religious, or social service facilities available to the general public at no cost or 
at a fee covering actual operating expenses, provided that such facilities are: 
         (A)   Owned and operated by a nonprofit corporation or institution; or 
         (B)   Are made available rent free for occupancy only by nonprofit corporations or institutions for such 
functions. Building area subject to this subsection shall be counted as Occupied Floor Area, except as 
provided in subsections (a) through (f) in the definition for Floor Area, Occupied, for the purpose of 
calculating the freight loading requirements for the project. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Noa L. Clark 
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP 
P.O. Box 2824 
San Francisco, CA 94126-2824 

May 13, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
666 Mission Street (a.k.a. 678 Mission Street) 

The use of the word “permanently” in this definition was not intended to outright prohibit any future changes of 
use or sales of the property. Rather, the intent of this language was exempt such uses from the calculation of 
GFA. However, should any such floor area be changed to a use or type of space that is not exempt from GFA per 
subsection (b)(17), then any such new use will count toward the building’s GFA.  

In 2001, under Planning Cases 2001.0277J and N, the subject property first made eligible, and then subsequently 
sold or transferred 60,264 square feet (sf) of TDR. The subject lot has an area of 6,696 sf and is located within the 
C-3-O District, which has a base FAR limit of 9:1. Therefore, the 60,264 sf of TDR made eligible and then 
transferred represent the full base FAR for the subject property.  

As noted on the Certificate of Transfer, “…the transfer of TDR represented by this Certificate of Transfer 
permanently reduces the amount of gross floor area that may be constructed on the transfer lot by the amount 
of TDR transferred,” and “the transfer of TDR from the site of a Contributory Building or a Category V Building 
permanently restricts development of that site as provided in Section 128 and Article 11 of the Planning Code.” 
Because the property has transferred all its base FAR, it would need to obtain TDR in order to add any GFA to the 
lot.  

Per Planning Code Section 128(c)(2), “TDR may not be transferred for use on any lot on which is or has been 
located a Significant or Contributory building,” except when the Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) finds 
that the additional gross floor area resulting from the transfer is “essential to make economically feasible the 
reinforcement of a Significant or Contributory building” in order to meet Building Code standards. Per Article 11 
of the Planning Code, the subject building is identified as a Contributory building in the New Montgomery-
Mission-Second Street Conservation District.  

However, on March 1, 2005, the Zoning Administrator issued a Letter of Determination for the property at 200-220 
Golden Gate Avenue relevant to this request (enclosed). That letter stated that the Planning Code does not 
explicitly prohibit “re-transfer” of TDR back to a Preservation Lot. And “because the intent of Section 128 is to 
encourage the use and preservation of historically significant buildings, and, although Section 128(c)(2) prohibits 
transfer of TDR to a site which does (or has) contain(ed) a Significant or Contributory building,” the Zoning 
Administrator at that time determined that TDR may be restored to that existing building because it did not 
represent a transfer of TDR but was a replacement of existing floor area, provided that TDR was purchased in a 
quantity equal to the developed floor areas of the existing building, and that no TDR deriving from the existing 
structure was transferred from the lot so long as the existing building remains standing on the site. Please note 
that this determination was never converted into a published Zoning Administrator interpretation of the 
Planning Code.  

Determination 
Based on the information above, it is my determination that the existing use of the subject building is not 
considered GFA per subsection (b)(17) of the definition of “Floor Area, Gross” in Planning Code Section 102. This 
subsection does not prohibit a change of use away from one of those GFA-exempt uses listed therein. However, if 
such use changes to a new use that is not consistent with subsection (b)(17), and therefore represents an 
increase of GFA on the lot, that change of use must comply with all applicable requirements of the Planning 
Code (e.g., FAR, impact fees, etc.). 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noa L. Clark 
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP 
P.O. Box 2824 
San Francisco, CA 94126-2824 

May 13, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
666 Mission Street (a.k.a. 678 Mission Street) 

The amount of TDR transferred from the property represents the totality of all GFA permitted within the base FAR 
permitted on the lot, such that no additional GFA may be added to the lot. However, pursuant to the Zoning 
Administrator determination from 2005 referenced above, TDR may be purchased and “re-transferred” back to 
the subject lot without HPC approval, but only in an amount that is equal to or less than the amount of GFA that 
can be accommodated within the existing building without any work to create additional floor area (e.g., 
mezzanines, etc.). Any transfer of TDR to the subject lot beyond that limit would be subject to the approval of the 
HPC as described in Planning Code Section 128(c)(2).  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

Enc:   March 1, 2005, Letter of Determination for 200-220 Golden Gate Avenue 

cc:   

California Historical Society 
Neighborhood Groups 
Claudine Asbagh, Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
