Letter of Determination 

August 18, 2021 

Ryan Motzek 
111 Gates Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

2021-004584ZAD 
701 Valencia Street 
3589 / 098 & 099 
Valencia Street Neighbor Commercial Transit (NCT) Zoning District 
Mission Alcoholic Beverage SUD 
55-X Height & Bulk District  
Matt Dito – (628) 652-7358 or matthew.dito@sfgov.org  

Record No.: 
Site Address: 
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact: 

Dear Ryan Motzek: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 701 Valencia 
Street. Your request was further clarified by your email to the assigned Planner, Matt Dito, on June 15, 2021. The 
request is to determine if conditions of approval associated with an approved conditional use on the subject 
property will be removed if the use is abandoned, the process for abandonment of the conditional use, if 4 
Mobile Food Facilities (MFFs) are principally permitted on the property, and whether on-site alcohol with a Type 
41 ABC license is permitted without a wait staff. 

On March 15, 2018, the Planning Commission approved Conditional Use Authorization (CUA) Application No. 
2017-004489CUA via Motion No. 20139 to legalize an existing commercial parking lot at 701 Valencia Street. 
Condition No. 8 of Motion No. 20139 is as follows: 

“Prohibition of Limited Restaurant and Restaurant Uses. While operating as a commercial parking lot, the 
project site at 701 Valencia Street shall be prohibited from establishing Limited Restaurant or Restaurant 
uses; this shall include a prohibition on accessory or temporary uses and/or mobile food facilities on the 
project site.” 

Ryan Motzek 
111 Gates Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

August 18, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
701 Valencia Street 

Motion No. 20139 was subsequently appealed to the Board of Supervisors. On May 15, 2018 the Board of 
Supervisors adopted Motion Nos. 18-074 and 18-082 to disapprove the Planning Commission’s CUA and grant a 
new CUA with the following conditions: 

•  While operating as a commercial parking lot, the project site at 701 Valencia Street shall be prohibited 
from establishing Limited Restaurant or Restaurant uses, except that one Mobile Food Facility may 
operate at the project site with a Temporary Use Authorization with a one-year term; 

•  Mobile Food Facility operating under such a Temporary Use Authorization may operate only between 

the hours of 11:00a.m. and 8:00p.m., up to six days a week; 

•  The Mobile Food Facility shall provide toilets with running water for handwashing; and if porta-potties 

are used, they must be camouflaged; 

•  Congregate seating (for example, picnic tables) shall be prohibited on the site; and 

•  Alcohol and amplified music shall be prohibited on the site, and live music shall be prohibited after 

8:00p.m. 

Building Permit Application No. 2018.1018.360 was subsequently issued on December 21, 2018 to establish a 
Public Parking Lot at the site. On February 12, 2019 a Temporary Use Authorization was granted by the Planning 
Department for a single MFF on the site in conformance with the approved CUA. Upon expiration, another 
Temporary Use Authorization was granted on March 2, 2020. 

On December 15, 2020, Evan Kidera of Senor Sisig applied for a Shared Spaces Permit to operate 4 MFFs in the 
parking lot pursuant to the “Twenty-Third Supplement to Mayoral Proclamation Declaring the Existence of a 
Local Emergency” (Supplemental Proclamation) regarding COVID-19. The Shared Spaces Permit was 
subsequently issued on December 23, 2020. It is important to note that temporary uses established through the 
Shared Spaces program do not constitute an abandonment or discontinuance of existing, underlying uses on a 
property.  

As part of this re quest for a Letter of Determination, you state an intent to permanently change the use of the 
subject property from a Public Parking Lot to 4 MFFS. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 102, when MFFs are 
operated in a manner that exceeds the temporary use limitations of Planning Code Section 205.4, they are 
determined to be either a Restaurant or Limited Restaurant use. A permanent change of use to 4 MFFs would 
exceed the temporary use limitations of Planning Code Section 205.4. Therefore, the intent is to convert the 
subject property from a Public Parking Lot use to a Limited Restaurant or Restaurant use consisting of 4 MFFs.  

You stated that the intent would be for the MFFs to serve alcohol on-site with a Type 41 ABC license, if possible. 
As defined in Planning Code Section 102, serving alcohol is one of the primary distinctions between a Limited 
Restaurant and a Restaurant use. Four MFFs operating in a permanent manner and serving alcohol would be 
classified as a Restaurant use. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 762, Restaurants are a principally permitted 
use on the first floor in the Valencia Street NCT Zoning District. 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Ryan Motzek 
111 Gates Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

August 18, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
701 Valencia Street 

Due to the condition of approval referenced above that prohibits the establishment of Limited Restaurant or 
Restaurant uses in conjunction with the Public Parking Lot use, no such use may be established while the 
property continues to rely on the CUA granted for the Public Parking Lot use. Planning Code Section 178(d) states 
that a “permitted conditional use that is discontinued for a period of three years, or otherwise abandoned 
[emphasis added], shall not be restored, except upon approval of a new conditional use application.”  

The request letter also seeks a determination as to whether a Type 41 ABC license would allow the MFFs to serve 
alcohol to patrons on-site without a wait staff. Further information regarding ABC licenses should be obtained 
from the California Department of ABC as needed, as this letter only serves to provide Planning Code 
determinations. The Planning Code does not require wait staff for the serving of alcohol within a Restaurant use, 
either indoors or outdoors. However, the Planning Code does address where and under what provisions outdoor 
seating may be provided.  

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 145.2, Outdoor Activity Areas (OOAs) are principally permitted in NC Districts 
if located contiguous to the front property line of the lot on which the Commercial Use is located. Additionally, 
Planning Code Section 202.2(a)(7) allows for OOAs to be principally permitted when not located contiguous to 
the front property line if all criteria of that section are met. Any OOA that does not meet the requirements of 
these sections will require a CUA from the Planning Commission.  

DETERMINATION 
Based on the information above, it is my determination that the issuance and completion of a building permit to 
change the use of the subject property from a Public Parking Lot to a Restaurant or Limited Restaurant (i.e., 4 
MFFs) would abandon the conditional use established per Board of Supervisors Motion Nos. 18-074 and 18-082, 
pursuant to Planning Code Section 178(d). Restaurant and Limited Restaurant uses are principally permitted on 
the first floor of the subject property and such a change of use building permit would be subject to 
neighborhood notice per Planning Code Section 311. Depending on the final layout and operations, serving 
alcohol through a Type 41 ABC license, and establishing an Outdoor Activity Area may either be principally 
permitted or require Conditional Use Authorization pursuant to Planning Code Sections 145.2 and Section 
202.2(a)(7). Once the Restaurant or Limited Restaurant use is established and the Public Parking Lot use is 
abandoned, the conditions of approval established in Motion No. 18-074 would no longer apply to the subject 
property.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

3  

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ryan Motzek 
111 Gates Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

August 18, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
701 Valencia Street 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Martin Cherin, 727 Valencia Street, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Donald Cherin Revocable Trust, 727 Valencia Street, San Francisco, CA 94110 
Evan Kidera, evan@senorsisig.com 
Phil Lesser, phnsan@msn.com  
Neighborhood Groups 
Matt Dito, San Francisco Planning Department 
Dre Torrey, San Francisco Planning Department 
Amy Beinart, Office of Supervisor Hillary Ronen 

Enc.  

Planning Commission Motion No. 20139 
Board of Supervisors Motion Nos. M18-0074, M18-0075, & M18-0082 

4 

.~P~Q COUNlrOu1

U -  ~

w a~2
~Jb~s ". ""o~5ti

SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

Subject to: (Select only if applicable) 
q  Affordable Housing (Sec. 415) 

D Jobs Housing Linkage Program (Sec. 413) 
q  Downtown Park Fee (Sec. 412) 

❑First  Source Hiring (Admin. Code) 

❑Child  Care Requirement (Sec. 414) 

❑Other

Planning Commission Motion No. 20139
HEARING DATE: MARCH 15, 2018

Case No.:
Project Address:
Zoning:

Block/Lot:
Project Sponsor:

Staff Contact:

2017-004489CUA
701 VALENCIA STREET
Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit (NCT) Zoning District
55-X Height and Bulk District
3589/098 and 099
Ryen Motzek
39129t'' Street #2
San Francisco, CA 94131
Esmeralda Jardines — (415) 575-9144
esmeralda.jardines@sf  ~ov.org

1650 Mission St.
Suite 400
San Francisco,
CA 94103-2479

Reception:
415.558.6378

Fax:
415.558.6409

P~annin9
Information:
415.558.6377

ADOPTING  FINDINGS  RELATING  TO  THE  APPROVAL  OF  CONDITIONAL  USE
AUTHORIZATION PURSUANT TO PLANNING CODE SECTIONS 303 AND 762 TO LEGALIZE
THE TEMPORARY CONVERSION OF AN ACCESSORY PARKING LOT TO A COMMERCIAL
PARKING LOT WITHIN THE VALENCIA STREET NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL TRANSIT
ZONING DISTRICT AND A 55-X HEIGHT AND BULK DISTRICT.

PREAMBLE

On April 12, 2017, Ryen Motzek (hereinafter "Project Sponsor") filed an application with the Planning
Department (hereinafter "Department") for Conditional Use Authorization under Planning Code Sections
303 and 762 to allow the temporary conversion of an accessory parking lot to a commercial parking lot in
the Valencia Street NCT Zoning District and a 55-X Height and Bulk District.

On February 22, 2018, the San Francisco Planning Commission (hereinafter "Commission") conducted a
duly noticed public hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting on Conditional Use Application No. 2017-
004489CUA. At this public hearing, the Project was continued to the public hearing on March 15, 2018.

The Project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") as a Class 3 categorical
exemption.

The Planning Commission Secretary is the custodian of records, located in the File for Case No. 2017-
004489CUA at 1650 Mission Street, Fourth Floor, San Francisco, California.

. ~~I~ fl tl i i1C~j. . C)CC~

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

The Commission has heard and considered the testimony presented to it at the public hearing and has
further considered written materials and oral testimony presented on behalf of the applicant, Department
staff, and other interested parties.

MOVED, that the Commission hereby authorizes the Conditional Use requested in Application No. 2017-
004489CUA, subject to the conditions contained in "EXHIBIT A" of this motion, based on the following
findings:

FINDINGS

Having reviewed the materials identified in the preamble above, and having heard all testimony and
arguments, this Commission finds, concludes, and determines as follows:

1.  The above recitals are accurate and constitute findings of this Commission.

2.  Site Description and Present Use. The Project is located on the east side of Valencia Street and
on the south side of 18th Street on Assessor's Block 3589, Lots 098 and 099. The subject parcels
cumulatively measure approximately 4,800 square feet and are improved with an approximately
450 square-foot garage with a surface parking lot providing accessory parking for the adjacent
retail use (DBA Cherin's Appliances) at 711 Valencia Street. T'he subject property contains
approximately 60 feet of frontage on Valencia Street and 80 feet of frontage on 18th Street.

3.  Surrounding Properties and Neighborhood.  The Project site is a corner lot fronting both
Valencia Street and 18"' Street; the block face is bounded by 18th Street and 19~' Street. To the
north and west are three to five-story multi-family residential mixed-use buildings. To the east is
a two-story mixed-use building with a ground floor restaurant and residential above, to the south
are non-residential uses and Cherin's Appliances store. The Project site is located in the Valencia
Street NCT Zoning District, which consists of a variety of neighborhood-serving uses with upper-
story residential uses. A mixture of food establishments, personal services, and small retail
establishments define the District. The surrounding properties are located within the Valencia
Street NCT (along Valencia Street), RTO-M (Residential Transit-Oriented Mission), UMU (Urban
Mixed Use), and Mission Street NCT Zoning Districts.

4.  Project Description.  The proposed project includes legalization of an existing commercial
parking lot, which currently also provides accesory parking for adjacent Cherin's Appliances at
711 Valencia Street. This commercial parking lot will be in operation when not in use by the
adjacent store, primarily from 5:00 PM to 12:00 AM from Tuesday to Saturday and 6:00 AM to
12:00 AM Monday and Sunday. The existing parking striping and layout provides 12 standard
parking stalls including 1 ADA accessible stall. The Project Sponsor (DBA Pristine Parking) will
operate nine off-street parking spaces as a temporary automobile parking lot measuring 4,800
square feet, when not needed as accessory parking for Cherin's Appliances. The spaces to be
utilized as automobile parking as well as ingress/egress are located on a corner surface parking
lot facility and are proposed to be accessed from the existing curb cut along 18th Street.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT 

_

2

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

5.  Public CommendCommunity Outreach. To date, the Department has received several public
comments inquiring, opposing and supporting the project. The opposition is primarily concerned
with: hours of operation, noise, congestion, cleanliness, and impacts to pedestrian and cyclists. A
neighboring restaurant is concerned that the proposed portable bathrooms for the outdoor
activity area and restaurant (mobile food facilities) are insufficient. The neighboring restaurant is
concerned that 701 Valencia Street patrons will instead be incentivized to use their restrooms,
exacerbating their limited supply, unless 701 Valencia Street provides adequate restrooms. T'he
support is supportive of how the outdoor activity area and restaurant (mobile food facilities) will
positively transform the surface parking lot. Members of the public are in support of the physical
improvements that are proposed, the food options it will provide, and the local businesses it will
support and accommodate space for.

Planning Code Compliance:  The Commission finds that the Project is consistent with the
relevant provisions of the Planning Code in the following manner:

A.  Uses. Per Planning Code Section 762, a public parking lot is conditionally permitted within
the Valencia Street NCT Zoning District. As part of the project, a new outdoor activity area
and restaurant (mobile food facilities) would be established; these uses are principally
permitted within the Valencia NCT District.

The Project would legalize a temporary commercial parking lot when the existing parking lot is not in
use by adjacent Cherin's Appliances at 711 Valencia Street.

The Commission does not find the proposed restaurant and outdoor activity area to be necessary or
desirable at 701 Valencia Street given the abundance and prevalence of other nearby eating and
drinking establishments. The Commission has added a condition of approval for the parking lot use,
which would prohibit restaurant and limited restaurant uses on the project site, while operating as a
commercial parking lot.

B.  Off-Street Parking. Per Planning Code Section 762, off-street parking is not required for
commercial uses within the Valencia NCT District; limits are set forth per Planning Code
Section 151.1.

Per Planning Code Section 151.1, 12 off-street car parking spaces are permitted as accessory for the
retail sales and service use (DBA Cherin's Appliances) as one space is permitted for every 500 square
feet of occupied floor area. Cherin's currently occupies approximately 5,998 square feet of occupied
floor area, and the surface parking lot provides 12 off-street parking accessory spaces for this use. No
additional spaces are proposed upon legalizing the commercial parking lot and the project sponsor is
proposing to use nine spaces for the commercial parking lot use.

C.  Screening and Greening of Parking and Vehicle Use Areas.  Planning Code Section 142
requires that all vehicular use areas that are greater than 25 linear feet adjacent to the public
right-of-way shall provide a screening feature around the perimeter of the lot adjacent to the
public right-of-way.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PL4NNING DEPARTMENT

3

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

The project site has approximately 60 feet of frontage along Valencia Street and approximately 80 feet
along  18t" Street.  The existing  parking lot  will  meet this  requirement with  proposed  rollaway
landscaped planter  boxes around the perimeter that will screen  the parking lot from view. The
screening shall add to the visual diversity of the use and will not be an opaque barrier.

D.  Parking Lots. Planning Code Section 156(c) requires that any parking lot for two or more
automobiles which adjoins a lot in any R District, or which faces a lot in any R District across
a street or alley; as well as any parking lot for ten or more vehicles shall be screened in
accordance with the standards described in Section 142, Screening and Greening of Parking
and Vehicle Use Areas.

The frontage along 18t'' Street is  adjacent to and faces an RTO-M District; further, the existing
parking lot provides 12 off-street parking spaces, while the proposed parking lot use would provide 9
off-street parking spaces. The proposed parking lot will provide acode-complying screening feature
around the perimeter of the lot adjacent to the public right-of-way per the aforementioned requirements
in Section 142.

E.  Lighting. Planning Code Section 156(d) requires that all lighting used to illuminate a parking
lot for any number of automobiles shall be so arranged that all direct rays from such lighting
fall entirely within the parking lot.

The subject parking lot already meets this requirement and is currently illuminated by spotlights that
are arranged to direct all rays dowmoard directly onto the lot. And future lighting will also be required
to demonstrate compliance with Section 156(d).

F.  Interior Landscaping and Street Trees. Planning Code Section 156(h) requires that all
permanent parking lots are required to provide one tree per five parking spaces in a manner
that is compliant with the applicable water use requirements of Administrative Code Chapter
63 and a minimum of 20 percent permeable surface.

The proposal is not a permanent parking lot; the Conditional Use Authorization is only for legalizing a
temporary commercial parking lot,  which will  be further limited  to a maximum of three  years.
However, the project sponsor will install planter/landscaping around the perimeter of the site and place
tree boxes on the site.

G.  Hours of Operation. Planning Code Section 762 states that the principally permitted hours

of operation in the Valencia NCT Zoning District are from 6 AM to 2 AM.

When used by Cherin's Appliances, the proposed hours of operation are Tuesday through Saturday
from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM; when operating a commercial parking lot, the proposed hours of operation
are from 6:00 AM to 12:00 AM Monday and Sunday. Per Planning Code Section 762, the proposed
hours of operation are code-complying.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

4

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

7.  Planning Code Section 303 establishes criteria for the Planning Commission to consider when
reviewing applications for Conditional Use approval. On balance, the project does comply with
said criteria in that:

A.  T'he proposed new uses and building, at the size and intensity contemplated and at the
proposed location, will provide a development that is necessary or desirable, and compatible
with, the neighborhood or the community.

The proposed temporary use is desirable as a shared use of an existing facility and, during the off-hours
of the adjacent retail use, as it will alleviate short-term demand for on-street parking. The commercial
parking lot will provide supplemental parking for patrons of the nearby retail and entertainment venue
establishments.  The underutilized spaces  will  provide a temporary use that is  desirable for the
neighborhood, and the existing parking lot will not be enlarged or altered  to accommodate this
temporary use.

The Commission has determined that a restaurant or limited restaurant use at this location would not
be necessary or desirable for the surrounding community, due to the overabundance of nearby eating
and drinking establishments within the vicinity of the project site. While the parking lot is in use, the
Commission has added a condition of approval to prohibit restaurant and limited restaurant uses on
the project site.

B.  The proposed project will not be detrimental to the health, safety, convenience or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity.  There are no features of the project
that could be detrimental to the health, safety or convenience of those residing or working
the area, in that:

Nature of proposed site, including its size and shape, and the proposed size, shape and
arrangement of structures;

The project does not include any physical alterations to the existing garage structure. The existing
parking lot will be improved with landscaped planter boxes around the perimeter of the site. The
project will not add any new curb cuts that would interfere with pedestrian, vehicular or MUNI
traffic. The project will benefit the surrounding neighborhood by providing off-street parking for
the neighborhood commercial districts within the vicinity.

ii. 

The accessibility and traffic patterns for persons and vehicles, the type and volume of
such traffic, and the adequacy of proposed off-street parking and loading;

The existing lot is large enough to provide on-site circulation, reducing the likelihood of queueing
in the street. Traffic conditions will remain substantially unaltered by this project because the
proposed  use  provides  nine  existing  spaces for  patrons  of nearby  bars,  restaurants  and
entertainment venues. The Project could potentially alleviate  traffic as the existing on-street
demand for parking will be reduced by providing unused spaces for the public to park their
vehicles.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

5

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

iii. 

The safeguards afforded to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare,
dust and odor;

The Project utilities existing parking spaces and will not create any additional noxious or offensive
emissions such as glare, dust or odors.

iv. 

Treatment given, as appropriate, to such aspects as landscaping, screening, open spaces,
parking and loading areas, service areas, lighting and signs;

'The Project improves the existing conditions by adding new landscaped planter boxes around the
perimeter along the property lines adjacent to the public right-of-ways, Valencia Street and ISt''
Street. Further, the project is proposing tree boxes within the parking lot facility.

C.  That the use as proposed will comply with the applicable provisions of the Planning Code

and will not adversely affect the General Plan.

7'he Project complies with all relevant requirements and standards of the Planning Code and is
consistent with objectives and policies of the General Plan as detailed below.

D. That the use as proposed would provide development that is in conformity with the purpose

of the applicable Neighborhood Commercial District.

The Project is consistent with the stated purpose of the Valencia Street NCT Zoning District, which is
intended to offer a wide variety of comparison and specialty goods and services to a population greater
than the immediate neighborhood. The conversion of the subject accessory parking lot to a commercial
parking lot provides an opportunity for city residents living in neighborhoods with limited public
transportation options to visit the district.

8.  Planning Code Section 303(t)(3) establishes criteria, considerations and procedures for non-
accessory parking facilities  in transit-oriented  neighborhoods. On balance, the project does
comply with said criteria in that:

a) T'he rate structure of Section 155(8) shall apply.

In order to discourage long-term commuter parking, any off-street parking spaces provided for a
structure or use other than residential or hotel, whether classified as an accessory or conditional use,
shall maintain a rate or fee structure for their use such that the rate charge for four hours of parking
duration is no more than four times the rate charge for the first hour, and the rate charge for eight or
more hours of parking duration is no less than 10 times the rate charge for the first hour. Additionally,
no discounted parking rate shall be permitted for weekly, monthly or similar time-specific periods. The
701 Valencia Street applicant has confirmed the aforementioned rate structure will be utilized.

b) Project sponsor has produced a survey of the supply and utilization of all existing publicly-
accessible parking facilities, both publicly and privately owned, within I/z-mile of the subject

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

6

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

site, and has demonstrated that such facilities do not contain excess capacity, including via
more efficient space management or extended operations.

The project sponsor has conducted a survey of the supply and utilization of all existing publicly-
accessible parking facilities, both publicly and privately owned, within 1/2 mile of 701 Valencia Street.
The sponsor has demonstrated that such facilities do not contain excess capacity. T'he results of the
aforementioned survey are attached as an exhibit to this report.

c) In the case of expansion of existing facilities, the facility  to be expanded has already
maacimized capacity through use of all feasible space efficient techniques, including valet
operation or mechanical stackers.

The proposal is to utilize the existing off-street parking spaces. No expansion of the existing facility is
proposed. A reduction in off-street parking spaces is proposed.

d) The proposed facility meets or exceeds all relevant urban design requirements and policies of
this Code and the General Plan regarding wrapping with active uses and architectural
screening, and such parking is not accessed from any frontages protected in Section 155(r).

The proposed facility will satisfy all relevant urban design requirements and policies of the Planning
Code and General Plan. The proposed lot is an existing nonconforming facility. Valencia Street is a
protected pedestrian, cycling and transit-oriented street frontage per Planning Code Section 155(r).
Although within  this  vicinity, 701 Valencia Street is  not a development lot for the purposes of
Planning Code Section 155, since the Project does not involve new construction, an increase in
existing square footage or a change in use which results in the increase in gross floor area. Pre-existing
access to off-street parking and loading on development lots that violates the restrictions of this Section
155(r) may not be maintained. The proposed project at 701 Valencia Street is  not considered a
development lot. However, when operating any of the new proposed uses, the Valencia Street frontage
should remain blocked to vehicular access because an alternative frontage, 18t" Street, is available.

e) Non-accessory parking facilities shall be permitted in new construction only if the ratio
between the amount of occupied floor area of principally or conditionally-permitted non-
parking uses to the amount of occupied floor area of parking is at least two to one.

New construction is not proposed as part of the Project. Currently, the subject parking lot is an
accessory parking lot for the adjacent Cherin's Appliances at 711 Valencia Street. The proposal is to
legalize the existing parking lot as a commercial lot when not in use by the aforementioned retail
establishment as ashort-term solution.

f) T'he proposed facility shall dedicate no less than 5% of its spaces far short-term, transient use
 vanpool, rideshare, or other co-operative auto
by car share vehicles as defined in Section J1
programs, and shall locate these vehicles in a convenient and priority location. These spaces
shall not be used for long-term storage nor satisfy the requirement of Section ~1
 but rather
are intended for use by short-term visitors and customers. Parking facilities intended for sole
and dedicated use as long-term storage for company or government fleet vehicles, and not to
be available to the public nor to any employees for commute purposes, are not subject to this
requirement;

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

7

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

The proposed commercial parking lot with 12 existing off-street parking spaces is proposing to provide
one of the aforementioned spaces for short-term, transient use by ahigh-occupancy vehicle.

g) For new or expanding publicly owned non-accessory parking facilities in the C-3, RC, NCT,

and RTO Districts, the following shall also apply:

(i) Expansion or implementation of techniques to increase utilization of existing public
parking facilities in the vicinity has been explored in preference to creation of new facilities,
and has been demonstrated to be infeasible;

(ii) The City has demonstrated that all major institutions (cultural, educational, government)
and employers in the area intended to be served by the proposed facility have Transportation
Demand Management programs in place to encourage and facilitate use of public transit,
carpooling, car sharing, bicycling, walking, and taxis;

(iii) T'he City has demonstrated that conflicts with pedestrian, cycling, and transit movement
resulting from the placement of driveways and ramps, the breaking of continuity of shopping
facilities along sidewalks, and the drawing of traffic through areas of heavy pedestrian
concentration, have been minimized, and such impacts have been mitigated to the fullest
extent possible; and

(iv) The proposed parking conforms to the objectives and policies of the General Plan and
any applicable area plans, and is consistent with the City's transportation management,
sustainability, and climate protection goals.

T'he proposed commercial parking lot is not publicly owned; therefore, the aforementioned requirements
do not apply.

9.  General Plan Compliance. The Project is, on balance, consistent with the following Objectives

and Policies of the General Plan:

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY ELEMENT

Objectives and Policies

OBJECTIVE 2:
MAINTAIN AND ENHANCE A SOUND AND DIVERSE ECONOMIC BASE AND FISCAL
STRUCTURE FOR THE CITY.

Policy 2.1:
Seek to retain existing commercial and industrial activity and to attract new such activity to the
City.

The availability of existing unused parking at the subject site for use as a temporary parking lot offers relief
in parking demand, thereby contributing to the economic vitality of the area.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

8

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

OBJECTIVE 6:
MAINTAIN AND STRENGTHEN VIABLE NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL AREAS EASILY
ACCESSIBLE TO CITY RESIDENTS.

Policy 6.1:
Ensure and encourage the retention and provision of neighborhood-serving goods and services in
the city's  neighborhood commercial districts,  while recognizing and encouraging diversity
among the districts.

The Project makes use of existing, underutilized facilities and would not displace any existing commercial
activity.  By limiting  the  approval  to  three  years, the proposed  temporary  use  would not preclude
development of the lot for other commercial uses.

During store business hours (for 711 Valencia Street), the 701 Valencia Street parking lot will be used as
accessory parking for Cherin's customers to park and load. T'he proposed commercial parking lot will only
be used during an interim period.

TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT

Citywide Parking

Objectives and Policies

OBJECTIVE 30:
ENSURE THAT THE PROVISION OF NEW OR ENLARGED PARKING FACILTITES DOES NOT
ADVERSELY AFFECT THE LIVABILITY  AND DESIRABILITY OF THE CITY AND ITS
VARIOUS NEIGHBORHOODS.

Policy 30.1
Assure that new or enlarged parking facilities meet need, locational and design criteria:

• There is a demonstrated demand for additional parking space in the surrounding area in

relation to the supply provided or resulting from a specific development.

• T'his  demand cannot be met by existing available facilities  or more efficient use of

existing facilities.

• In the case of desired accessory parking (i.e. parking customarily provided incidental to a
permitted use and directly related to the activities conducted on the site of the use) its
need is clearly established and not presumed.

• The location is appropriate in terms of adjacent land uses.

• Conflict  between  pedestrian  and  bicycle  movements and  driveways or  ramps is
minimized and additional auto traffic through areas of heavy pedestrian concentration is
avoided.

saN FRaNcisco 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

g

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

T'he design and operating policy of the facility is such that vehicles can be admitted
rapidly, to avoid the use of the street as a waiting area for entrance into the facility and to
avoid the sihxation of automobiles idling for a long period of time.

Adequate provisions are made to accommodate parking and egress for people with
mobility impairments.

The 701 Valencia Street team conducted a supply and utilization survey of all existing publicly-accessible
parking facilities within a 1/2 mile radius of the subject site, as outlined in Planning Code Section 303(t)(3)
and attached as an exhibit. Per the project sponsor's analysis, the survey analyzed 5 surveyed sites
including: 2351 Mission Street, 606 Capp Street, 3255 21St Street, 42 Hoff Street, and 3111 17t" Street.
The Survey results of the supply and utilization of all existing publicly-accessible parking facilities within
1/2 mile of the subject site (701 Valencia) show that there is limited excess capacity at these facilities. They
Survey also shows that there are no parking facilities on Valencia Street for patrons to utilize during the
dinner hours from 5 PM to 9 PM as proposed. on most days. There are restaurants on Valencia Street
between 16t" Street and 20t~ Street without parking options on Valencia Street except for public metered
spaces. During the aforementioned times, there are limited public metered spaces available and providing
12 spaces at 701 Valencia is a relief for patrons and businesses in the area.

The average usage for each parking facility survey includes: 61% usage at 2351 Mission Street, 69% usage
at 606 Capp Street, 74% usage at 3255 21g~ Street, and 57% usage at 3111 17t" Street. The average usage
of all five lots that were surveyed was 58% full capacity. Parking facilities were surveyed during morning
and evening hours. Two of the aforementioned facilities that were surveyed, 3255 21St Street and 42 Hoff
Street, include monthly permit holders only along with spaces open to the public.

Policy 30.6:
Make existing and new accessory parking available to nearby residents and the general public for
use as short-term or evening parking when not being utilized by the business or institution to
which it is accessory.

The Project will use existing, underutilized parking spaces to provide convenient parking for nearby
residents and the general public, in addition to alleviating parking demand in order to maintain the high
quality living environment of the City.

OBJECTIVE 35:
MEET SHORT-TERM PARKING  NEEDS IN  NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING DISTRICTS
CONSISTENT WITH PRESERVATION OF A DESIRABLE ENVIRONMENT FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND RESIDENTS.

Policy 35.2
Assure that new neighborhood shopping district parking facilities and other auto-oriented uses
meet established guidelines.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNIN~i DEPARTMENT

'~ O

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

In addition to the criteria for new parking facilities in Objective 30, Policy 1, the following
guidelines should be considered in the review of proposed new facilities in Neighborhood
Commercial Districts:

• Parking Facilities should be located to provide convenient access to desired shopping
destinations. However, they should be located in such a manner that lessens the amount
of traffic traveling through the district, does not disrupt the continuity of the shopping
district, and that neither gives it priority over nor impedes access to destinations for
persons arriving by transit, bicycle or on foot.

• Multiple use of parking structures and lots should be provided wherever feasible.

• The location and configuration of curb cuts and entrances to off-street parking should be
designed  to  minimize  safety  hazards  and  access  conflicts  to  pedestrians,  transit
operations and bicyclists, and to be sensitive to the design and scale of the urban
streetscape.

The proposed commercial parking lot is conveniently located near the Mission Street and Valencia Street
shopping corridors.  Whilst operating as a commercial parking lot,  the parking facility  will only be
accessible from 18th Street. Planter boxes and food trucks will block the Valencia Street frontage, diverting
vehicular traffic away from the protected-bicycle and pedestrian street. Therefore, the proposed parking lot
would not disrupt the continuity of the shopping district.

10. Mission Area Plan Compliance.  T'he Project is, on balance, consistent with the following

Objectives and Policies of the Mission Area Plan.

BUILT FORM

OBJECTIVE 3.2:
PROMOTE AN URBAN FORM AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER THAT SUPPORTS
WALKING AND SUSTAINS A DIVERSE, ACTIVE AND SAFE PUBLIC REALM

Policy 3.2.3
Minimize the visual impact of parking.

Where a building has two frontages, parking entrances, loading docks, bays, and auxiliary service
entrances  should  be  accessed  from  secondary  streets,  and  their  visual  impact  on  the
neighborhood should be minimized.

As part of the conditional use authorization, roll-away planter/landscaping boxes will be placed around the
periphery of the parking lot facility. When operating as a commercial parking lot, the Valencia Street
frontage will be closed off with landscaped planter boxes and the site will be accessed from 18th Street.

TRANSPORTATION

Objectives and Policies

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLMINING DEPARTMENT

11

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

OBJECTIVE 4.3:
ESTABLISH PARKING POLICIES THAT IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF NEIGHBORHOODS
AND REDUCE CONGESTION AND PRIVATE VEHICLE TRIPS BY ENCOURAGING TRAVEL
BY NON-AUTO MODES.

Policy 4.3.4
Encourage, or require where appropriate, innovative parking arrangements that make efficient
use of space, particularly where cars will not be used on a daily basis.

Allowing a commercial parking lot to operate at 701 Valencia Street while not utilized as accessory parking
for the adjacent retail use at 711 Valencia Street (DBA Cherin's Appliances), permits an efficient use of
space at an existing facility. Further, whilst operating as a commercial parking lot, the Valencia Street
entrance will be blocked with food trucks and planter boxes, further enhancing the protected-bicycle and
pedestrian Street.

Valencia and 18t" Street are part of the cyclist and pedestrian high injury network and 701 Valencia is
within  the  Vision Zero High Injury Network; the latter of which aims for zero traffic deaths in San
Francisco by 2024.

The temporary entrance closure of Valencia Street is rather significant as it will reduce potential cyclist and
pedestrian collisions with vehicular traffic and further enhance the protected-bicycle and pedestrian street

frontage.

11. Planning Code Section 101.1(b) establishes eight priority-planning policies and requires review
of permits for consistency with said policies.  On balance, the project does comply with said

policies in that:

A.  That existing  neighborhood-serving  retail  uses be preserved  and enhanced and future
opportunities for resident employment in and ownership of such businesses be enhanced.

The Project will assist in  alleviating on-street parking demand. To assist in  preserving existing
neighborhood-serving retail uses, the Commission has added a condition of approval to prohibit a
restaurant or limited restaurant use, while the project site  is  used for a commercial parking lot.
Thereafter, the site Zvill activate a surface parking lot by providing additional food establishments to
support the retail uses within the district.

B.  That existing housing and neighborhood character be conserved and protected in order to

preserve the cultural and economic diversity of our neighborhoods.

The commercial parking lot will utilize an existing parking facility. It will also remove three parking
spaces. Therefore, the Project will not have any effect on the cultural or economic diversity of the
neighborhood but instead will enhance it.

C.  That the City's supply of affordable housing be preserved and enhanced,

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLMINING DEPApTMENT

'~'z

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

The Project would not have any effect on the City's supply of affordable housing. No housing exists on
the project site.

D. That commuter traffic  not impede MUNI transit service  or overburden our streets or

neighborhood parking.

The Project will nat impede MUNI services or overburden streets or neighborhood parking. Rather, the
Project will reduce the neighborhood's parking scarcity by using an existing underutilized parking
facility temporarily. Currently, there is an existing curb cut along 18t'' Street that will remain. The 33
MUNI bus route runs along 18t" Street and will continue operating accordingly  without any
impediment to MUNI services.

E.  That a diverse economic base be maintained by protecting our industrial and service sectors
from displacement due to commercial office development, and that future opportunities for
resident employment and ownership in these sectors be enhanced.

The Project will not displace any service or industry establishment. The Project will not affect
industrial or service sector uses or related employment opportunities. Ownership of industrial or
service sector businesses will not be affected by this project.

F.  That the City achieve the greatest possible preparedness to protect against injury and loss of

life in an earthquake.

This Project will not affect the property's ability to withstand an earthquake.

G.  That landmarks and historic buildings be preserved.

The Project does propose any alterations to the existing garage structure on the site; thus, neither
landmarks nor historic buildings will be affected.

H. That our parks and open space and their access to sunlight and vistas be protected from

development.

The Project will have no negative effect on existing parks and open spaces.

12. T'he project is consistent with and would promote the general and specific purposes of the Code
provided under Section 101.1(b) in that, as designed, the project would contribute to the character
and stability of the neighborhood and would constitute a beneficial development.

13. The Commission hereby finds that approval of the Conditional Use Authorization  would

promote the health, safety and welfare of the City.

SAN FRANCISCO 
P~,ANNING DEPARTMENT

13

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

DECISION

That based upon the Record, the submissions by the Applicant, the staff of the Department and other
interested parties, the oral testimony presented to this Commission at the public hearings, and all other
written  materials  submitted  by all  parties, the  Commission hereby  APPROVES Conditional Use
Application No. 2017-004489CUA, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 762, for the temporary
conversion of an accessory parking lot to a commercial parking lot within the Valencia Street NCT
Zoning District and a 55-X Height and Bulk District.

APPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF MOTION: Any aggrieved person may appeal this Conditional
Use Authorization to the Board of Supervisors within thirty (30) days after the date of this Motion No.
20139. The effective date of this Motion shall be the date of this Motion if not appealed (After the 30-
day period has expired) OR the date of the decision of the Board of Supervisors if appealed to the
Board of Supervisors.  For further information, please contact the Board of Supervisors at (415) 554-
5184, City Hall, Room 244, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, San Francisco, CA 94012.

Protest of Fee or Exaction:  You may protest any fee or exaction subject to Government Code Section
66000 that is imposed as a condition of approval by following the procedures set forth in Government
Code Section 66020. The protest must satisfy the requirements of Government Code Section 66020(a) and
must be filed within 90 days of the date of the first approval or conditional approval of the development
referencing the challenged fee or exaction. For purposes of Government Code Section 66020, the date of
imposition of the fee shall be the date of the earliest discretionary approval by the City of the subject

development.

If the City has not previously given Notice of an earlier  discretionary approval of the project, the
Planning Commission s adoption of this Motion, Resolution, Discretionary Review Action or the Zoning
Administrator's  Variance  Decision  Letter  constitutes  the approval or  conditional  approval of the
development and the City hereby gives NOTICE that the 90-day protest period under Government Code
Section 66020 has begun. If the City has already given Notice that the 90-day approval period has begun
for the subject development, then this document does not re-commence the 90-day approval period.

I hereby certify that the Planning Commission ADOPTED the foregoing Motion on March 15, 2018.

Christine L. Silva
Acting Commission Secretary

AYES: 

Fong, Hillis, Johnson, Koppel, Melgar and Richards

ABSENT: 

Moore

ADOPTED:  March 15, 2018

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPORTMENT

14

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

AUTHORIZATION

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

EXHIBIT A

This authorization is for a conditional use to allow the temporary conversion of an accessory parking lot
to a commercial parking lot (DBA Pristine Parking) located at 701 Valencia Street, Block 3589, Lot 098 and
Lot 099, pursuant to Planning Code Sections 303 and 762, within the Valencia Street NCT Zoning District
and a 55-X Height and Bulk District; in general conformance with plans, stamped "EXHIBIT B" included
in the docket for Case No. 2017-004489CUA and subject to conditions of approval reviewed and
approved by the Commission on March 15, 2018 under Motion No. 20139. This authorization and the
conditions contained herein run with the property and not with a particular Project Sponsor, business, or
operator.

RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

Prior  to the issuance of the building permit or commencement of use for the Project the Zoning
Administrator shall approve and order the recordation of a Notice in the Official Records of the Recorder
of the City and County of San Francisco for the subject property. This Notice shall state that the project is
subject to the conditions of approval contained herein and reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission on March 15, 2018 under Motion No. 20139.

PRINTING OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL ON PLANS

The conditions of approval under the 'Exhibit A' of this Planning Commission Motion No. 20139 shall be
reproduced on the Index Sheet of construction  plans submitted with the Site  or Building  permit
application for the Project.  T'he Index Sheet of the construction plans shall reference to the Conditional
Use authorization and any subsequent amendments or modifications.

SEVERABILITY

The Project sha11 comply with all applicable City codes and requirements. If any clause, sentence, section
or any part of these conditions of approval is for any reason held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect or impair other remaining clauses, sentences, or sections of these conditions. This decision conveys
no right to construct, or to receive a building permit. "Project Sponsor" shall include any subsequent
responsible party.

CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

Changes to the approved  plans  may be approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator.
Significant changes and modifications of conditions shall require Planning Commission approval of a
new Conditional Use authorization.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

15

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

Conditions of Approval, Compliance, Monitoring, and Reporting

PERFORMANCE

1.  Validity and Expiration. The authorization and right vested by virtue of this action is valid for
three years from the effective date of the Motion.  A building permit from the Department of
Building Inspection to construct the project and/or commence the approved use must be issued as
this Conditional Use authorization is only an approval of the proposed project and conveys no
independent right to construct the project or to commence the approved use.  The Planning
Commission may, in a public hearing, consider the revocation of the approvals granted if a site or
building permit has not been obtained within three (3) years of the date of the Motion approving
the Project. Once a site or building permit has been issued, construction must commence within
the timeframe required by the Department of Building Inspection and be continued diligently to
completion.  The Commission may also consider revoking the approvals if a permit for the
Project has been issued but is allowed to expire and more than three (3) years have passed since
the Motion was approved.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.s~planning.org.

DESIGN

2.  Garbage, Composting and Recycling Storage. Space for the collection and storage of garbage,
composting, and recycling shall be provided within enclosed areas on the property and clearly
labeled and illustrated on the architectural addenda.  Space for the collection and storage of
recyclable  and compostable  materials that  meets the size, location, accessibility  and other
standards specified by the San Francisco Recycling Program shall be provided at the ground level
of the buildings.
For information about compliance, contact the Case Planner, Planning Department at 415-558-6378,
www.s~planning.org .

3.  Lighting Plan.  The Project Sponsor shall submit an exterior lighting plan to the Planning
Department prior to Planning Department approval of the building /site permit application.
For information about compliance, contact the Case Planner, Planning Department at 415-558-6378,
www.s~planning.org

4.  Landscaping, Screening of Parking and Vehicular Use Areas.  Pursuant to Planning Code
Section 142, the Project Sponsor shall submit a site plan to the Planning Department prior to
Planning approval of the building permit application indicating the screening of parking and
vehicle use areas not within a building. The design and location of the screening and design of
any fencing shall be as approved by the Planning Department.  The size and species of plant
materials  shall be as approved by the Department of Public Works. Landscaping shall  be
maintained and replaced as necessary.
For information about compliance, contact the Case Planner, Planning Department at 415-558-6378,
www.s~planning.org

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

16

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

PARKING AND TRAFFIC

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

5.  Parking Maximum. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 151.1, the Project shall provide no more

than nine (9) off-street parking spaces for use as part of the commercial parking lot.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www. s,~planning. org

MONITORING

6.  Enforcement. Violation of any of the Planning Department conditions of approval contained in
this Motion or of any other provisions of Planning Code applicable to this Project shall be subject
to the enforcement procedures and administrative penalties set forth under Planning Code
Section 176 or Section 176.1. The Planning Department may also refer the violation complaints to
other city departments and agencies for appropriate enforcement action under their jurisdiction.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.s~planning.org

7.  Revocation due to Violation of Conditions. Should implementation of this Project result in
complaints from interested property owners, residents, or commercial lessees which are not
resolved by the Project Sponsor and found to be in violation of the Planning Code and/or the
specific conditions of approval for the Project as set forth in Exhibit A of this Motion, the Zoning
Administrator shall refer such complaints to the Commission, after which it may hold a public
hearing on the matter to consider revocation of this authorization.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.sf-planning.org

OPERATION

8.  Prohibition of Limited Restaurant and Restaurant Uses. While operating as a commercial
parking lot, the project site at 701 Valencia Street shall be prohibited from establishing Limited
Restaurant or Restaurant uses; this shall include a prohibition on accessory or temporary uses
and/or mobile food facilities on the project site.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.sf-planning.org

9.  Sidewalk Maintenance. T'he Project Sponsor shall maintain the main entrance to the site and all
sidewalks abutting the subject property in a clean and sanitary condition in compliance with the
Department of Public Works Streets and Sidewalk Maintenance Standards. For information about
compliance, contact  Bureau  of Street  Use and  Mapping, Department of Public  Works, 415-695-
2017,. http:lls~w.oral

10. Temporary Parking Lot. The authorization to operate this temporary automobile parking lot is
limited to the 9 existing spaces located on Assessor's Lot 098 and Lot 099 in Block 3589 and is
valid for a period not to exceed three years from the date of approval of this Conditional Use
Motion. To continue this use beyond the three years, a new Conditional Use Authorization from
the Planning Commission shall be required.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

~ 7

Motion No. 20139
March 15, 2018

CASE NO. 2017-004489CUA
701 Valencia Street

11. 18th  Street Frontage Site Access. The vehicular access to operate this temporary automobile
parking lot is limited to the existing street frontage access along 18t'' Street. The Valencia Street
frontage must remained closed via landscaped planter boxes prohibiting vehicular access from
Valencia Street.

12. Community Liaison. Prior  to  issuance  of a building  permit to  construct the  project and
implement the approved use, the Project Sponsor shall appoint a community liaison officer to
deal with the issues of concern to owners and occupants of nearby properties. Should the contact
information change, the Zoning Administrator shall  be made aware of such change.  The
community liaison shall report to the Zoning Administrator what issues, if any, are of concern to
the community and what issues have not been resolved by the Project Sponsor.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
wzvw.s~planning.org

13. Lighting. All Project lighting shall be directed onto the Project site and immediately surrounding
sidewalk area only, and designed and managed so as not to be a nuisance to adjacent residents.
Nighttime lighting shall be the minimum necessary to ensure safety, but shall in no case be
directed so as to constitute a nuisance to any surrounding property.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.s~planning.org

14. Hours of Operation. The subject establishment is limited to the following hours of operation as
accessory parking to the adjacent retail use at 711 Valencia Street: Tuesday through Saturday
from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.s~planning.or~

15. Hours of Operation. The subject establishment is limited to the following hours of operation as a
commercial parking lot: Monday and Sunday from 6:00 AM to 12:00 AM; as well as Tuesday
through Saturday from 5:00 PM to 12:00 AM.
For information about compliance, contact Code Enforcement, Planning Department at 415-575-6863,
www.s~planning.org

16. Noise. The subject establishment is limited to the noise permitted per the City and County of San
Francisco  Police  Code's  Noise  Ordinance, Article  29, Section  2909.  For information  about
compliance with the requirements for noise limits contact the Police Department at 415-553-0123, www.s -
police.o~.

SAN FRANCISCO 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

~ 8

EXHIBIT 
B

FILE  NO.  180405 

AMENDED  IN  BOARD 
5/15/2018 

MOTION  NO.  Ml8-074 

[Conditionally Conditional  Use Authorization and Approving with  Additional  Conditions - 701 
Valencia Street Project] 

Motion conditionally disapproving the  decision of the  Planning Commission  by its 

Motion  No.  20139 to  approve a Conditional  Use Authorization  identified as  Planning 

Case No.  2017-004489CUA for a proposed  project located at 701  Valencia Street; 

approving a Conditional  Use Authorization for the same Planning Case and  property 

with  different conditions;  and  adopting findings  pursuant to  Planning Code Section 

101.1. 

MOVED, That the  Planning  Commission's approval on  March  15,  2018,  of a 

Conditional  Use Authorization  identified  as  Planning  Case No.  2017-004489CUA,  by its 

Motion  No.  20139, to  legalize a temporary conversion  of an  accessory parking  lot to a 

commercial  parking  lot within  a Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit Zoning 

District and  a 55-X Height and  Bulk  District,  for a proposed  project located  at: 

701  Valencia Street, Assessor's  Parcel  Block No.  3589,  Lot Nos.  098  and  099  is 

hereby disapproved;  and,  be  it 

FURTHER MOVED,  That the  Board  hereby approves a Conditional  Use Authorization 

for the same property with  all  conditions imposed  by the Planning  Commission except 

condition  number 8 prohibiting  Limited  Restaurant and  Restaurant uses,  and  with  the 

additional following  conditions: 

•  While operating  as  a commercial  parking  lot,  the project site at 701  Valencia Street 

shall  be prohibited from  establishing  Limited  Restaurant or Restaurant uses,  except 

that one Mobile Food  Facility may operate at the project site with  a Temporary Use 

Authorization with  a one-year term; 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Clerk of the  Board 
BOARD OF  SUPERVISORS 

Page  1 

•  A Mobile Food  Facility operating  under such  a Temporary Use Authorization  may 

operate only between the hours of 11 :00  a.m. and  8:00 p.m.,  up  to  six days a week; 

•  The  Mobile Food  Facility shall  provide toilets with  running  water for handwashing ; 

and  if porta-potties are used , they must be  camouflaged ; 

•  Congregate seating  (for example , picnic tables)  shall  be  prohibited  on  the site;  and 

•  Alcohol  and  amplified  music shall  be  prohibited  on  the site , and  live music shall  be 

prohibited  after 8:00 p.m. ; and , be  it 

FURTHER MOVED, That the disapproval of the  Conditional  Use Authorization and  the 

approval of the Conditional  Use Authorization with  different conditions are all subject to the 

adoption of written findings  of the  Board  in  support of this determination;  and , be  it 

FURTHER MOVED, That these conditions are consistent with  and  supported by the 

Planning  Commission's findings  of consistency with the General  Plan  and  Planning  Code 

Section  101.1 , and  the  Board  hereby incorporates those findings and  adopts them  as  its own. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Clerk of the  Board 
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS 

Page 2 

City and County of San Francisco 

Tails 

Motion: MlS-074 

City Hall 
I  Dr.  Carlton B.  Goodlett Place 
San Francisco, CA  94 102-4689 

File Number: 

180405 

Date Passed:  May 15,  2018 

Motion conditionally disapproving the decision of the  Planning Commission  by  its Motion No . 20139 , 
approving  a Conditional  Use Authorization  identified  as  Planning  Case  No. 2017-004489CUA for a 
proposed  project located  at 701  Valencia Street. 

May  15, 2018  Board of Supervisors - AMENDED, AN  AMENDMENT OF THE WHOLE 
BEARING  SAME TITLE 

Ayes : 11  - Breed , Cohen,  Fewer, Kim,  Peskin,  Ronen , Safai,  Sheehy,  Stefani , 
Tang  and Yee 

May  15, 2018  Board of Supervisors - APPROVED AS  AMENDED 

Ayes : 11  - Breed,  Cohen , Fewer, Kim,  Peskin , Ronen , Safai,  Sheehy,  Stefani, 
Tang  and Yee 

File No. 180405 

I hereby certify that the foregoing  Motion 
was APPROVED AS  AMENDED on 
5/15/2018  by the  Board of Supervisors  of 
the City and County of San  Francisco. 

Angela Calvillo 
Clerk of the Board 

City  and County of San Francisco 

Pagel 

Printed at 10:52 am on 5116118 

FILE  NO.  180406 

MOTION  NO.  MlS-075 

[Preparation of Findings  Related  to  Conditional  Use Authorization Appeal - 701  Valencia 
Street] 

Motion directing the Clerk of the Board to prepare findings in support of the Board of 

Supervisors' disapproval of the proposed Conditional Use Authorization identified as 

Planning Case No.  2017-004489CUA for a proposed project located at 701  Valencia 

Street Project. 

MOVED, That the  Board  of Supervisors hereby directs the Clerk of the  Board to 

prepare findings related  to the  Board  of Supervisors' disapproval of the  proposed  Conditional 

Use Authorization  identified  as  Planning  Case  No.  2017-004489CUA  for a proposed  project 

located  at 701  Valencia Street Project, Assessor's Parcel  Block No.  3589,  Lot Nos.098 

and  099. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Clerk of the Board 
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS 

Page 1 

City and County of San Francisco 

Tails 
Motion:  M18-075 

City Hall 
I  Dr.  Carlton  B.  Goodlett Place 
San Francisco, CA  94 102-4689 

File Number: 

180406 

Date Passed:  May 15,  2018 

Motion directing the  Clerk of the Board to prepare findings in support of the  Board  of Supervisors' 
disapproval of the  proposed  Conditional  Use Authorization  identified as  Planning  Case  No. 
2017-004489CUA for a proposed  project located at 701  Valencia Street Project. 

May  15, 20 18 Board of Supervisors - APPROVED 

Ayes:  11  - Breed,  Cohen , Fewer, Kim,  Peskin,  Ronen,  Safai, Sheehy,  Stefani, 
Tang and Yee 

File No.  180406 

I hereby certify that the foregoing Motion 
was APPROVED on  5/15/2018  by the  Board 
of Supervisors of the City and County of 
San Francisco. 

City  and County of San Francisco 

Pagel 

Printed at 11:01 am  0 11  5116118 

FILE  NO .  180568 

MOTION  NO.  M18-082 

[Adoption of Findings Related to  Conditional  Use Authorization - 701  Valencia  Street Project] 

Motion  adopting findings  in  support of the  Board  of Supervisors' disapproval of the 

decision of the  Planning  Commission, by its  Motion  No.  20139, approving a Conditional 

Use Authorization  identified as  Planning Case No.  2017-004489CUA for a proposed 

project located at 701  Valencia Street;  and the  Board's approval  of a Conditional  Use 

Authorization  for the  same Planning  Case and  property with  different conditions. 

WHEREAS,  On  March  15, 2018, the Planning  Commission  approved  a Conditional 

Use Authorization  identified  as  Planning  Case No. 2017-004489CUA, by its  Motion 

No.  20139,  to  legalize a temporary conversion  of an  accessory parking  lot to a commercial 

parking  lot within  a Valencia Street Neighborhood Commercial Transit Zoning  District and  a 

55-X Height and  Bulk District, for a proposed  project located  at 701  Valencia Street, 

Assessor's Parcel Block No.  3589 , Lot Nos.  098 and  099;  and 

WHEREAS,  On  April  16, 2018 , Thomas J.  Lalanne on  behalf of Project Sponsor Ryen 

Matzek filed  a timely appeal  protesting the  conditions  placed  on  the approval of the 

Conditional  Use Authorization  by the  Planning  Commission;  and 

WHEREAS,  On  May 15, 2018, the  Board of Supervisors held  a duly noticed  public 

hearing  on  the  appeal;  and 

WHEREAS , Following the conclusion  of the  public hearing that day,  the Board voted to 

conditionally disapprove the decision  of the Planning  Commission  and  to approve the 

requested  Conditional Use Authorization with  different conditions,  subject to  adoption  of 

written findings  by the Board,  as  reflected  in  Board of Supervisors  Motion  No.  18-07 4;  and 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Clerk  of th e Board 
BOARD OF  SUPERVISORS 

Page  1 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

WHEREAS,  In  deciding the appeal , the  Board  reviewed  and  considered the entire 

written  record  before the  Board  and  all  the  presentations and  public comments made in 

support of and  in  opposition to the  appeal;  now,  therefore,  be  it 

MOVED, That the  Board finds that with  the conditions  imposed  by the  Board at the 

May 15,  2018 , meeting , the proposed project is  necessary or desirable for,  and  compatible 

with,  the  neighborhood and the  community;  and , be  it 

FURTHER MOVED, That the operation  of the  parcel as  a temporary commercial 

parking  lot is  an  efficient use  of this underutilized site,  and  combining  this with the operation  of 

a single food truck under a Temporary Use Authorization will  provide the surrounding 

10 

neighborhood with  notable benefits,  protecting the existing  character of the  neighborhood and 

11 

12 

13 

14 

the operation of other local  businesses while complementing those businesses by providing 

additional dining options to  members of the public;  and,  be  it 

FURTHER MOVED, That the  conditions  imposed  by the Board  of Supervisors in 

Motion  No.  18-07 4 will  prevent adverse impacts of the authorized  activities at the site,  such  as 

15 

patrons drinking alcohol or crossing the street to  use  restrooms  in  nearby restaurants;  and,  be 

it 

FURTHER MOVED, That these cond itions are consistent with  and supported  by the 

Planning  Commission's findings  of consistency with the General Plan  and  Planning Code, 

Section  101 .1,  and  the Board  hereby incorporates those findings and  adopts them  as  its own. 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

Clerk of the Board 
BOARD OF  SUPERVISORS 

Pag e 2 

City and County of San Francisco 

Tails 

Motion:  MlS-082 

City Hall 
I Dr.  Carlton  B.  Goodlett Place 
San Francisco, CA  94102-4689 

File Number: 

180568 

Date Passed:  June 05,  2018 

Motion  adopting findings in  support of the Board of Supervisors' disapproval of the decision  of the 
Planning  Commission,  by its  Motion  No.  20139,  approving  a Conditional Use Authorization  identified 
as  Planning  Case  No. 2017-004489CUA for a proposed  project located  at 701  Valencia  Street; and 
the Board's approval of a Conditional  Use Authorization for the same  Planning  Case and  property 
with  different conditions. 

June 05,  2018 Board  of Supervisors - APPROVED 

Ayes:  11  - Breed,  Cohen , Fewer,  Kim,  Peskin,  Ronen,  Safai,  Sheehy,  Stefani, 
Tang  and Yee 

File No.  180568 

I hereby certify that the foregoing  Motion 
was APPROVED on  6/5/2018 by  the Board 
of Supervisors of the City  and  County of 
San  Francisco. 

~ Angela Calvillo 

Clerk of the  Board 

City and County of San Francisco 

Page4 

Printed at 12:07 pm on 616118 

