Letter of Determination 

January 13, 2023 

Francis Ho 
PO Box 16385 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning: 

Staff Contact:  

Dear Francis Ho: 

2022-010134ZAD 
77 Falmouth Street 
3753 / 329 
MUR (Mixed Use Residential) Zoning District 
Central SoMa Special Use District 
Vincent W. Page II – (628) 652-7396 
vincent.w.page.ii@sfgov.org  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 77 Falmouth 
Street. The request seeks confirmation of the following: (1) whether a Conditional Use Authorization (“CUA”) is 
required to allow “formula retail or a professional office” in the commercial unit; and (2) whether such CUA, if 
approved, would entitle other insurance agencies, or similar professional uses, to occupy the commercial space 
into perpetuity, or whether it would allow “other similar businesses” should a law firm, accountant, or architect 
wish to occupy the space in the future. 

The commercial use in question, an insurance company, attorney, accountant, financial advisor, architect, or 
other professional consultant, meets the definition for Professional Service in Planning Code Section 890.108:  

Serviceʐ Professionalʏ A use, generally an office use, which provides professional services to the general 
public or to other businesses including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, consulting, insurance, real 
estate brokerage, advertising agencies, public relations agencies, computer and data processing services, 
employment agencies, management consultants and other similar consultants, telephone message 
services, and travel services. 

Planning Code Section 303.1 lists the uses that may be classified as a Formula Retail use, such as Restaurant, 
Financial Service, and General Grocery. However, Professional Service is not listed as a use that may be classified 
as Formula Retail.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Francis Ho 
PO Box 16385 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

January 13, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
77 Falmouth Street 

The subject property falls within the MUR  Zoning District and the Central SoMa Special Use District (SUD). Both 
the zoning district and SUD principally permit a Professional Service use on the ground floor. While the proposed 
uses are principally permitted and not considered a Formula Retail use, please note the following. First, the 
subject property is required to provide an “Active Use” (as defined by and required in Planning Code Section 
145.1) within the first 25 feet of building depth on the ground floor. While Professional Service is an Active Use, 
other Office uses (as defined in Planning Code Section 890.70) are not considered an active use per the Central 
SoMa SUD and therefore are not permitted within the first 25 feet of frontage.  

Second, a Conditional Use Authorization (CUA) would be required to establish a Formula Retail use at the subject 
property. Once a Formula Retail use is established on a lot, the applicable controls for changing to a different 
Formula Retail use are located in Planning Code Section 178(c). All changes of use, regardless of the Formula 
Retail context, require a building permit to establish the new use and are subject to the applicable controls in 
place that time.  

Based on the information above, it is my determination that the proposed uses fall under the category of 
Professional Service, which is a principally permitted use on the subject lot. A building permit is required to 
establish a new use or change to a new use. Because Professional Services are not a use included in the category 
of Formula Retail, no Conditional Use Authorization is required to establish such use on the subject lot. Please 
note that this determination is made in response to a general inquiry, and any specific proposal, once submitted, 
would be reviewed based on the details and information available at that time to determine the correct land use 
classification and applicable Planning Code controls. However, because the building was constructed with 
authorization for commercial uses on the ground floor, the establishment of a Professional Service use would 
not trigger the neighborhood notification requirements Planning Code Section 311.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 13, 2023 
Letter of Determination 
77 Falmouth Street 

Francis Ho 
PO Box 16385 
San Francisco, CA 94116 

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Urban Skys LLC (Property Owner) 
Neighborhood Groups 
Vincent W. Page II, Planner, District 6/Code Enforcement 

3  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
