Letter of Determination 

April 8, 2021 

Mr. Andrico Q. Penick 
Director of Real Estate 
City and County of San Francisco Real Estate Division 
25 Van Ness Avenue, Suite 400 
San Francisco, CA  94102 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2021-003035ZAD 
777 Brannan Street 
3784/032 
SALI (Service / Arts / Light Industrial) Zoning District 
Western SoMa Special Use District 
Daniel Sider – 628.652.7539 or dan.sider@sfgov.org   

Dear Director Penick: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 777 Brannan 
Street, where the City and County of San Francisco (“City”) proposes to use an existing approximately 29,000 
square-foot building that is currently under long-term lease to the City for the storage of City-owned or 
controlled personal protective equipment (“PPE”) and distribution thereof to various City departments.  

The request seeks confirmation that the City’s occupancy of the property is (1) a Public Use under Planning Code 
Sections 183(c)(2) and 890.80, and (2) has a “public safety-related purpose” per Planning Code Section 183(c). 
You specifically seek verification that the City’s proposed occupancy would be consistent with the legitimization, 
change of use, and re-establishment provisions contained in Planning Code Section 183(c) per Ordinance No. 
122-18. 

Planning Code Section 183(c) states the following: 

“Discontinuance or Abandonment of SelfῙStorage Use Due to City and County Occupancy. Adoption of the 
Western South of Market Area Plan resulted in certain land uses, including Self-Storage, that were 
previously permitted no longer being permitted. The purpose of this subsection 183(c) is to establish a 
process by which the owner of property with a Self-Storage use that was established and is operating 
without the benefit of a required change of use permit may seek and obtain the required permit, lease the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Andrico Q. Penick 
Director of Real Estate 

April 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
777 Brannan Street 

property to the City and County of San Francisco for a public safety-related purpose, and re-establish a 
legal nonconforming Self-Storage use after the City vacates the property.” 

Planning Code Section 183(c)(2) states the following: 

“Change of Use from a SelfῙStorage Use to Public Useʒ Notice and Discretionary Review of the Building 
Permitʏ Any building permit that is required for the City’s occupancy of the property for a public-safety 
related purpose classified as a Public Use under Section 890.80 of this Code shall not be subject to the 
notification requirements of Section 312 or other notification requirements of this Code, and no requests for 
discretionary review of the building permit shall be accepted by the Planning Department or heard by the 
Planning Commission.” 

Planning Code Section 890.80 defines a Public Use, in part, as follows: 

“A publicly or privately owned use which provides public services to the community, whether conducted 
within a building or on an open lot, and which has operating requirements which necessitate location 
within the district, including civic structures such as museums, post offices, administrative offices of 
government agencies, public libraries, police stations, transportation facilities, utility installations, and 
Internet Services Exchange. Such use shall not include service yards, machine shops, garages, incinerators 
and publicly operated parking in a garage or lot. Public uses shall also include a community recycling 
collection center, as defined in Subsection (a) below.” 

Your letter indicates that the PPE materials in question include masks, gloves, gowns, water, paper products, 
hand sanitizer, and disinfecting wipes. These materials are intended for use by, and/or distribution through, City 
Departments. These PPE are related to the City’s current public health response to the COVID-19 crisis, and these 
and/or related types of PPE will likely be needed by the City for both COVID and non-COVID purposes going 
forward. 

Based on the information above, it is my determination that the City’s storage and distribution of PPE at the 
subject property is a public safety-related purpose as contemplated in Planning Code Section 183(c), is 
consistent with the definition of a Public Use per Section 890.8, and would meet the legitimization, change of 
use, and re-establishment provisions of Section 183(c)(2).  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 8, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
777 Brannan Street 

Mr. Andrico Q. Penick 
Director of Real Estate 

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Rachel Gosiengfiao, Executive Administrator, RED 
Daniel Sider, AICP, Director of Executive Programs, Planning Department 
Aaron Starr, Manager of Legislative Affairs, Planning Department 
Audrey Merlone, Senior Planner, Planning Department 

3  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
