Letter of Determination 

August 19, 2022 

Orest Kravets  
KravLand LLC 
901 Bell Avenue 
Sacramento, CA 95838 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2022-003487ZAD 
979 Bryant Street 
3780/034 
UMU (Urban Mixed Use) 
Chris Wendt- (628) 652-7583, christopher.wendt@sfgov.org 

Dear Orest Kravets: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the property at 979 Bryant 
Street, which proposes to use an existing 3,150-square-foot building for a use that will store grocery and 
household items to be available for electronic ordering, delivery, and pickup. Per additional email 
correspondence, this facility would be operated by Instacart (dba Maplebear). The request seeks confirmation of 
the following:  

1)  Whether the intended use constitutes a “General Grocery” use.

Background 
Per your request letter and subsequent emails, the subject property would store household essentials, groceries, 
and pre-packed food items typically available at brick-and-mortar grocery stores that would be sold through the 
Instacart online platform (e.g., website, app, etc.). The proposal does not include any dedicated delivery parking 
spots on site. Customers would primarily receive goods through delivery, though on-location ordering and 
pickup would also be available.  

The proposed concept would allow for items typically on sale at a grocery store to be made available by pre-
order, either through delivery or by the customer through self-pickup. Such a concept would require a significant 
portion of the subject property to be dedicated to product inventory, with a small area reserved for individuals 
(customers and delivery drivers) who enter the subject building to pick up pre-packaged orders. Additionally, 
ancillary functions would occupy a portion of the subject property, including a break area for on-site employees.  

Orest Kravets  
KravLand LLC 
901 Bell Avenue 
Sacramento, CA 95838 

August 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
979 Bryant Street 

The determination request suggests that a small number of customers who order goods through the app are 
expected to opt out of delivery service. These customers will enter the subject property and pick up orders in 
much the same way that delivery drivers will pick up orders for delivery to customers. Electronic point-of-sale 
transactions would take place at the subject property. However, cash would not be accepted and customers 
would not have access to the majority of the space or the ability to shop for items from the shelf. Additionally, 
the items stored at the subject property would be intended for individual sale and not in wholesale quantities, 
and for delivery to the final customers, and not for resale or business use.  

Analysis 
The subject property is zoned UMU, which is a mixed use district that is primarily regulated by Planning Code 
Article 8, which does not include a separate definition for a grocery store use. Instead, a grocery store use falls 
under Planning Code Section 890.102, which defines Other Retail Sales and Services as follows:  

A retail use which provides goods and/or services but is not listed as a separate zoning category in zoning 
category numbers .41 through .63 of Sections 810 through 812 of this Code, including, but not limited to 
sale or provision of the following goods and services: 
   (a)   General groceries; 
   (b)   Specialty groceries such as cheese, confections, coffee, meat, produce; 
   (c)   Pharmaceutical drugs and personal toiletries; 
   (d)   Personal items such as tobacco and magazines; 
   (e)   Self-service laundromats and dry cleaning, where no portion of a building occupied by such use shall 
have any opening other than fixed windows and exits required by law within 50 feet of any R District; 
   (f)   Household goods and services (including paint, fixtures and hardware, but excluding other building 
materials); 
   (g)   Variety merchandise; 
   (h)   Florists and plant stores; 
   (i)   Apparel and accessories; 
   (j)   Antiques, art galleries and framing services; 
   (k)   Home furnishings, furniture and appliances; 
   (l)   Books, stationery, music and sporting goods; and 
   (m)   Toys, gifts, and photographic goods and services. 

 It excludes tourist motels, as distinguished from tourist hotels in Section 890.46 of this Code, amusement 
game arcades and household goods self-storage facilities, which are included in "storage," defined in 
Section 790.117 of this Code. It also excludes the sale of heating fuel and the sale or rental of commercial 
equipment (excluding office equipment) and construction materials, other than paint, fixtures and 
hardware. 

Per Planning Code Section 890.104, Other Retail Sales and Service use is within the Retail Sales and Service 
category, which is defined as:  

A commercial use which provides goods and/or services directly to the consumer and not for resale and is 
accessible to the general public. 

For reference, Planning Code Section 102 defines a Grocery Store as: 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
Orest Kravets  
KravLand LLC 
901 Bell Avenue 
Sacramento, CA 95838 

August 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
979 Bryant Street 

Grocery, General. A Retail Sales and Services Use that: 
   (a)   Offers a diverse variety of unrelated, non-complementary food and non-food commodities, such as 
beverages, dairy, dry goods, fresh produce and other perishable items, frozen foods, household products, 
and paper goods; 
   (b)   May provide beer, wine, and/or liquor sales for consumption off the premises with a California 
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board License type 20 (off-sale beer and wine) or type 21 (off-sale general) that 
occupy less than 15% of the Occupied Floor Area of the establishment (including all areas devoted to the 
display and sale of alcoholic beverages); 
   (c)   May prepare minor amounts of food on site for immediate consumption; 
   (d)   Markets the majority of its merchandise at retail prices; and 
   (e)   Shall operate with the specified conditions in Section 202.2(a)(1). 
   (f)   Such businesses require Conditional Use authorization for conversion of a General Grocery use 
greater than 5,000 square feet, pursuant to Section 202.3 and 303(l). 

Planning Code Section 102 also defines a Parcel Delivery Service Use as follows:  

A Non-Retail Automotive Use limited to facilities for the unloading, sorting, and reloading of local retail 
merchandise for deliveries, including but not limited to cannabis and cannabis products, where the 
operation is conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, including garage facilities for local 
delivery trucks, but excluding repair shop facilities. Where permitted in PDR Districts, this use is not required 
to be operated within a completely enclosed building. 

Determination 
The subject property would be specifically designed to facilitate the unloading, sorting, and reloading of local 
retail merchandise within an enclosed building, and not to conduct retail operations as the primary function.  
As such, and based on the information above, it is my determination that the proposed use would be classified 
as a Parcel Delivery Service. The limited customer pick-up option would not qualify as an Other Retail Sales and 
Service use as a principal use. This determination is consistent with other Parcel Delivery Service determinations 
for similar facilities for DashMart (320 10th Street), Food Rocket, Amazon, and Gorillas. 

Please note that Parcel Delivery Service is not permitted in the UMU Zoning District. Additionally, the Board of 
Supervisors adopted Interim Zoning Controls for an 18-month period that require Parcel Delivery Service uses to 
obtain Conditional Use Authorization when they are otherwise permitted in the underlying zoning district (File 
No. 220159 – effective as of April 1, 2022).  

Please also be aware that an ordinance was filed on April 19, 2022 (File No. 220340) that proposes to amend the 
Planning Code to update and reorganize the Mixed-Use Zoning District controls of Article 8. However, it is unclear 
at this point if or how the proposal would amend how Parcel Delivery Service uses are permitted within the UMU 
Zoning District. 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orest Kravets  
KravLand LLC 
901 Bell Avenue 
Sacramento, CA 95838 

August 19, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
979 Bryant Street 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Pak Ling & Sau Fun Yip Revocable Trust, 2128 Coral Sea Street, Alameda, CA 94501 (Property Owner) 
Neighborhood Groups 
Xinyu Liang, Acting SE Team Leader 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
