Letter of Determination 

May 21, 2021 

Solomon Gorlick 
via email 
solomongorlick@yahoo.com  

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 

Staff Contact:  

2021-001706ZAD 
99 Rausch Street (aka 1140 Folsom Street) 
3730/293 
Folsom Street NCT (Neighborhood Commercial Transit) Zoning District 
Western SoMa Special Use District 
65-X Height and Bulk District 
Elton Wu - 628-652-7415 or Elton.Wu@sfgov.org   

Dear Solomon Gorlick,  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the permitted uses in a ground 
floor commercial condominium unit at 99 Rausch Street (also known as 1140 Folsom Street). Per your request, 
you are seeking confirmation whether the ground floor can be used either 1) for a mortgage broker, or 2) for a 
mix of 55% mortgage broker and 45% coffee shop. 

Background 
The subject property is located in the Folsom Street NCT Zoning District. On December 18, 2014, the Planning 
Commission approved the project at 1140 Folsom Street, which included a five-story mixed-use building with 
approximately 5,600 square feet of ground floor retail space along Folsom Street.  

Planning Code Section 102 defines a Retail Professional Service Use as:  

“A Retail Sales and Service Use that provides primarily to the general public, general business, or 
professional services including, but not limited to, management, clerical, accounting, legal, consulting, 
insurance, real estate brokerage, and travel services. It may provide services to the business community, 
provided that it also provides services to the general public. Otherwise, it shall be considered a Non-Retail 
Professional Service Use as defined in this Section 102.”  

Planning Code Section 102 defines a Limited Restaurant as: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solomon Gorlick 
via email 
solomongorlick@yahoo.com 

May  21, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
99 Rausch Street - ZAD Request (aka 1140 Folsom Street) 

“A Retail Sales and Service Use that serves ready-to-eat foods and/or drinks to customers for consumption 
on or off the premises, that may or may not have seating. It may include wholesaling, manufacturing, or 
processing of foods, goods, or commodities on the premises as an Accessory Use as set forth in 
Sections 204.3 or 703(d), 803.2(d), 803.3(b)(1)(C) and 825(c)(1)(C) depending on the zoning district in which it 
is located. It includes, but is not limited to, foods provided by sandwich shops, coffee houses, pizzerias, ice 
cream shops, bakeries, delicatessens, and confectioneries meeting the above characteristics, but is distinct 
from a Specialty Grocery, Restaurant, and Bar. It shall not provide on-site beer and/or wine sales for 
consumption on the premises, but may sell beer and/or wine for consumption off the premises with a 
California Alcoholic Beverage Control Board License type 20 (off-sale beer and wine), if all areas devoted to 
the display and sale of alcoholic beverages occupy less than 15% of the Occupied Floor Area of the 
establishment. Such businesses shall operate with the specified conditions in Section 202.2(a)(1).”  

Building Permit No. 201411101145 was issued on December 30, 2015 and completed on December 7, 2017 and 
authorized the ground floor commercial unit as a general retail use. Planning Code Section 311 requires 
neighborhood notice for a building permit for a change of use within Neighborhood Commercial Districts as 
follows: 

“For all Residential, NC, and NCT Districts, a change of use is defined as a change to, or the addition of, 
any of the following land uses as defined in Section 102 of this Code: Adult Business, Bar, Cannabis 
Retail, General Entertainment, Group Housing, Limited Restaurant, Liquor Store, Massage Establishment, 
Medical Cannabis Dispensary, Nighttime Entertainment, Outdoor Activity Area, Post-Secondary 
Educational Institution, Private Community Facility, Public Community Facility, Religious Institution, 
Residential Care Facility, Restaurant, School, Tobacco Paraphernalia Establishment, Trade School, and 
Wireless Telecommunications Facility. A change of use from a Restaurant to a Limited-Restaurant shall 
not be subject to the provisions of this Section 311. Any accessory massage use in the Ocean Avenue 
Neighborhood Commercial Transit District shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 311. A 
change of use to a principally permitted use in an NC or NCT District, or in a limited commercial use or a 
limited corner commercial use, as defined in Sections 186 and 231, respectively, shall not be subject to 
the provisions of this Section 311.” 

Determination 
Based on the information above, the proposed mortgage broker will be classified as a Retail Professional Service 
as long as it is open to the general public, and such use is principally permitted on the ground floor of the 
subject property as long as it is primarily open to the general public on a client-oriented basis. Per Planning 
Code Section 757, if the mortgage broker use does not meet this requirement, then it is not permitted on the 
ground floor of the subject property. A building permit to change the use of the subject space from general retail 
to Retail Professional Service is exempt from Section 311 neighborhood notice because the Retail Professional 
Service is a principally permitted use on the ground floor.  

The proposed coffee shop will be classified as a Limited Restaurant. Per Planning Code Section 757, such use is 
principally permitted on the ground floor of the subject property up to 10,000 gross square feet. A building 
permit to change the use of the subject space from general retail to Limited Restaurant is exempt from Section 
311 neighborhood notice because the Limited Restaurant is a principally permitted use on the ground floor.  

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Solomon Gorlick 
via email 
solomongorlick@yahoo.com 

May  21, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
99 Rausch Street - ZAD Request (aka 1140 Folsom Street) 

Please note that these potential changes of use could be achieved through two separate building permits, or 
combined in a single building permit. Additionally, the proposed uses are eligible for expedited review under the 
recently-passed Proposition H. For more information, go to: https://sfplanning.org/save-our-small-businesses-
initiative 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Property Owner 
Neighborhood Groups 
Elton Wu, Assistant Planner 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
