Letter of Determination 

January 5, 2022 

John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Subject:  
Address: 
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-011447ZAD 
Animal Hospital – Formula Retail Use 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Tina Tam- tina.tam@sfgov.org 

Dear John Kevlin: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination to confirm whether an “animal hospital” 
use is subject to formula retail controls.   

Planning Code Section 102 defines Animal Hospital as: 

“A Retail Sales and Service Use that provides medical care and accessory boarding services for animals, not 
including a Kennel.”   

Many uses fall under the category of “Retail Sales and Service,” but Retail Sales and Service is not an individual 
use itself. Instead, many retail sales and service uses are separately defined land uses within the Planning Code. 
Examples include Animal Hospitals, Restaurants, and Gyms. Beyond those individually defined retail sales and 
service uses, General Retail Sales and Services and Other Retail Sales and Services (as defined in Sections 102 
and 890) capture all other retail sales and service uses.   

Planning Code Section 303.1(c) lists all the retail uses that are eligible to qualify as a Formula Retail use. Only 
those uses specifically listed are subject to the formula retail controls in Section 303.1. Unlike the Restaurant and 
Gym examples listed above, Animal Hospital is not included in this list. Therefore, it is my determination that an 
Animal Hospital use is not eligible to be considered a Formula Retail use per Planning Code Section 303.1.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 

January 5, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Animal Hospital – Formula Retail Use 
2021-011447ZAD 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and interpretation and 
applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not a permit to commence any work or 
change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be secured before work is started or occupancy is 
changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Citywide Neighborhood Groups 
Tina Tam, Deputy Zoning Administrator 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
