Letter of Determination 

March 30, 2022 

Laura DiGiovanni 
EV Mobility, Inc. 
433 N. Camden Drive 
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-007349ZAD 
EV Mobility, Inc.  
N/A 
N/A 
Justin Kran – (628) 652-7429 or justinkran@sfgov.org  

Dear Laura DiGiovanni: 

This letter is in response to your request to have EV Mobility, Inc. (“EV Mobility”) designated a certified car-share 
organization pursuant to Planning Code Section 166. EV Mobility, in partnership with Blink Mobility, assisted with 
the development and management of BlueLA.  

A "car-share service" is a mobility enhancement service that provides an integrated citywide network of 
neighborhood-based motor vehicles available only to members by reservation on an hourly basis, or in smaller 
intervals, and at variable rates. Car-sharing is designed to complement existing transit and bicycle transportation 
systems by providing a practical alternative to private motor vehicle ownership, with the goal of reducing over-
dependency on individually owned motor vehicles. Car-share vehicles must be located at unstaffed, self-service 
locations (other than any incidental garage valet service), and generally be available for pick-up by members 24 
hours per day. A car-share service shall provide automobile insurance for its members when using car-share 
vehicles and shall assume responsibility for maintaining car-share vehicles. 

A certified car-share organization must provide a car-share service as defined by Planning Code Section 
166(b)(1). The following table demonstrates how EV Mobility does or does not meet those characteristics. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laura DiGiovanni 
433 N. Camden Drive 
Beverly Hills, CA 9021 

March 30, 2020 
Letter of Determination 
EV Mobility, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

Car-Share Characteristic Requirements 
A.  Member-based service, where such service is available to members only. 

Additional demonstration of membership may include annual or monthly 
membership fees, or membership cards. 

Met/Unmet 

EV Mobility is a member-based service, accessible only to those who sign up via 
their website, the EV Mobility app, or by contacting their 24/7 multilingual 
customer support team by phone or email. Members must provide a valid driver’s 
license and a credit card. EV Mobility does not charge a membership fee. 

B. 

Vehicles are available to members at unstaffed locations only, and members 
access vehicles without interacting with staff or filling out paperwork for each 
car usage. 

EV Mobility vehicles are available to rent without any other EV Mobility auxiliary 
staff necessary. 

C. 

Vehicles are accessible to members at all times, 24 hours per day, seven days 
per week. 

EV Mobility vehicles are placed at locations where they can be accessed 24 hours 
per day, seven days per week. Using the EV Mobility app, verified renters can 
remotely lock and unlock the doors of EV Mobility cars. 

E. 

Vehicles are available for reservation at least on an hourly basis, or at smaller 
intervals. 

EV Mobility provides hourly rates and reservations may be as short as one hour. In 
order to use an EV Mobility vehicle, members must make a reservation through 
the website, app, or by contacting their 24/7 multilingual customer support team 
by phone or email. 

F. 

Car-share service must provide insurance and maintenance of the vehicle fleet 
as part of membership at no extra charge. 

Each EV Mobility reservation includes insurance coverage for renters for the 
duration of each rental, from start to finish, and includes liability, collision and 
comprehensive (e.g., fire, auto theft, vandalism) coverage. EV Mobility also 
ensures that the vehicles are well-maintained. 

Met 

Met 

Met 

Met 

Met 

Based on the information referenced above, EV Mobility’s service and operations meet the requirements of a car-
share service pursuant to Planning Code Section 166(b)(1). 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laura DiGiovanni 
433 N. Camden Drive 
Beverly Hills, CA 9021 

March 30, 2020 
Letter of Determination 
EV Mobility, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

Car-Share Organization Certification  
To qualify as a certified car-share organization, a car-share organization shall submit a written report (i.e. a Car-
sharing Certification Study) prepared by an independent third party academic institution or transportation 
consulting firm that clearly demonstrates, based on a statistically significant analysis of quantitative data, that 
such car-sharing service has achieved two or more of the following environmental performance goals in any 
market where they have operated for at least two years: (A) lower household automobile ownership among 
members than the market area's general population; (B) lower annual vehicle miles traveled per member 
household than the market area's general population; (C) lower annual vehicle emissions per member 
household than the market area's general population; and (D) higher rates of transit usage, walking, bicycling 
and other non-automobile modes of transportation usage for commute trips among members than the market 
area's general population. The Zoning Administrator shall only approve certification of a car-share organization if 
the Planning Department concludes that the Certification Study is technically accurate and clearly demonstrates 
that the car-share organization has achieved two or more of the above environmental performance goals during 
a two-year period of operation. 

EV Mobility provided a report (attached) from Fehr & Peers, a transportation planning and transportation 
engineering firm headquartered in Walnut Creek, demonstrating the benefits of the BlueLA Car-share Program—
under management of EV Mobility—based on a quantitative analysis. The report demonstrated that EV Mobility’s 
user base had a significantly lower Vehicle Ownership rate in its Los Angeles market area, with users having a 
vehicle ownership rate of 24% compared to vehicle ownership rate of 77% in the market area. The report also 
demonstrated EV Mobility’s fleet had lower annual vehicle emissions through the fleet being 100% fully battery 
electric compared to the market area, in which 90% were gasoline powered. 

It is in Fehr & Peers’ professional opinion that EV Mobility’s Instant program does achieve the goals listed for a 
Certified Car-share Organization. Their opinion is based on quantitative studies conducted on the Envoy and 
Zipcar car-share companies. Both Envoy and Zipcar became Certified Car-share Organizations per Planning 
Code Section 166(b)(1). 

Determination 
Based upon the information you provided, as well as the fact that EV Mobility’s car-share program meets all the 
characteristics  of  a  car-share  service  like  other  Certified  Car-Share  Organizations  in  San  Francisco,  it  is  my 
determination that EV Mobility meets the minimum criteria necessary for certification per Section 166(b), and 
therefore is now designated as a “Certified Car-Share Organization.” 

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laura DiGiovanni 
433 N. Camden Drive 
Beverly Hills, CA 9021 

March 30, 2020 
Letter of Determination 
EV Mobility, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc: 

Citywide Neighborhood Groups 

4 

