Letter of Determination 

January 5, 2022 

Zanna Worzella 
Head of North America 
Five at Heart, Inc. 
1037 Murray Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

Record No.: 
Name:  
Site Address:  
Staff Contact:  

2021-009751ZAD 
Five at Heart – 2 Step Bicycle Rack 
No Address Specified 
Andrew Perry – (628) 652.7430 or andrew.perry@sfgov.org  

Dear Zanna Worzella: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding whether the “2 Step” double-
decker bicycle rack, a Class 2 bicycle parking system designed and manufactured in the Netherlands, complies 
with the bicycle parking requirements of the Planning Code. The request does not seek a determination about the 
use of such racks at a specific property, but rather generally seeks confirmation that such racks comply with the 
Planning Code. 

Background 
Planning  Code  Section  155.1(c)  outlines  certain  design  standards  for  bicycle  parking  spaces.  These  design 
standards apply to all required bicycle parking spaces and are supplemented by Zoning Administrator Bulletin No. 
9, which includes specific requirements on bicycle parking layout and acceptable types of Class 1 and Class 2 
bicycle parking spaces. Pursuant to Bulletin No. 9, space efficient double-decker bicycle racks (such as the 2 Step) 
are required to have a minimum clearance of 17 inches between bicycles (measured from the mid-point of one 
rack to mid-point of another rack) and any type of bicycle parking that does not match these requirements must 
be approved by the Zoning Administrator (in consultation with the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency 
– SFMTA) for determination of equivalency.  

Your request notes that the 2 Step includes center spacing of 15 ¾ inches (400 mm) and (similar to other space 
efficient  double-decker  bicycle  racks)  features  staggered  heights  for  both  tiers  to  allow  close  spacing  of  the 
bicycles. Your request also states the “this bicycle rack is well established and has been delivered and installed at 
major projects across the US, Europe, and Australia” and the “spacing has never caused issues with bikes parking 
adjacent to one another.” The staggered height will reduce the effect of the slightly narrower separation between 
bikes because it will avoid the interlocking of handlebars. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Zanna Worzella 
Five at Heart, Inc 
1037 Murray Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 

January 5, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Five at Heart – 2 Step Bicycle Rack 

Separately, it is noted that the 2 Step requires the front wheel to be lifted up to 15.4 inches (390 mm) off the ground 
to place the bicycle in the rack. However, it does not require that both wheels be lifted more than 12 inches off the 
ground at the same time.  

Determination 
Based upon our review of the material in your request, and in consultation with SFMTA, the 2 Step rack with center 
spacing of 15 ¾ inches (400 mm) is hereby found to  comply with the requirements of the Planning Code and 
Zoning Administrator Bulletin No. 9.  

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Andrew Perry, Planning Department 
Citywide Mailing List 
Adrian Leung, SFMTA (adrian.leung@sfmta.com) 
John Garzee, SFMTA (john.garzee@sfmta.com)  

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
