Letter of Determination 

March 30, 2022 

Eric Rago 
Getaround, Inc. 
55 Green Street 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2020-002483ZAD  
Getaround, Inc.  
N/A 
N/A 
Andrew Perry, (628) 652-7430 or andrew.perry@sfgov.org  
Justin Kran, (628) 652-7429 or justin.kran@sfgov.org   

Dear Eric Rago: 

This letter is in response to your request to have Getaround, Inc. (“Getaround”) designated as a certified car-
share organization pursuant to Planning Code Section 166, but only for its Public Car-Share Program fleet. 
Getaround’s standard peer-to-peer service is not included in this certification.  

Pursuant to your request letter and a subsequent informational letter, Getaround’s mission is to connect safe, 
convenient, and affordable cars with people who need them to live and work, making our cities and 
communities better places to live. Getaround has a long history of working with professionally managed vehicles 
to provide carsharing to the cities and communities where it operates. In 2016 Getaround took over City 
CarShare’s fleet and formed a strategic partnership with Toyota Motor Corporation to supply shared cars. 
Getaround has since added other strategic partners and has approximately two thousand 24/7 dedicated shared 
vehicles in managed locations with public partners like the SFMTA, City of Boston, and BART. 

Getaround has created a Public Car Share Program to support our public-private partners with safe and available 
shared vehicles. The program exceeds the San Francisco Planning Department’s environmental performance 
goals for a certified car-share organization and is both programmatically and physically different from non-
participating cars (i.e., peer-to-peer vehicles). The Public Car Share Program requires the cars to dedicated to 
carsharing and must: 1) be less than seventy-two (72) inches in height; 2) emit low levels of emissions for the 
applicable vehicle class; 3) be reserved or available for reservation on Getaround at all times while such car(s) 
occupies the parking location; and 4) Cars must have Getaround logo decals on the rear of both the driver and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eric Rago 
Getaround, Inc. 
55 Green Street 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 30, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Getaround, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

passenger sides, and a Getaround URL decal at rear of the car prominently displayed at all times. Strategic 
partners with cars that are parked at Public Car Share Program locations consent to Getaround and or its 
contractors’ ability to monitor, relocate, and make routine adjustments to the car while parked at such locations, 
without prior approval. 

Dedicated parking spaces will be marked with Getaround branded signs that can vary based on the 
partners’ needs. For example, your partnership with SFMTA for the on-street car-share program has a small 
purple sign that is attached at street meter level. In any case there will be the Getaround logo or brand that must 
match the decals on the vehicle. This helps enforcement officers distinguish between Getaround cars in the 
Public Car Share Program that may park in the location from bad actors or non-participating cars. Any non-
participating car that parks in a Public Car Share Program location is subject to be ticketed or towed at the 
violator’s expense. This is also a violation of Getaround’s terms of use and repeat offenders will be removed from 
the Getaround platform.  

Getaround has a dedicated team to manage and oversee the vehicles, locations, vendors, and contractors that 
are part of the Public Car Share Program to make sure that all cars meet or exceed the high standards of the 
program. Getaround also ensure that all vehicles are road-ready and well maintained by conducting routine 
reviews after trips to identify issues and maintain our high standards. At any point, if a car fails any one of these 
conditions it is removed from Getaround until the issue has been resolved. 

A "car-share service" is a mobility enhancement service that provides an integrated citywide network of 
neighborhood-based motor vehicles available only to members by reservation on an hourly basis, or in smaller 
intervals, and at variable rates. Car-sharing is designed to complement existing transit and bicycle transportation 
systems by providing a practical alternative to private motor vehicle ownership, with the goal of reducing over-
dependency on individually owned motor vehicles. Car-share vehicles must be located at unstaffed, self-service 
locations (other than any incidental garage valet service), and generally be available for pick-up by members 24 
hours per day. A car-share service shall provide automobile insurance for its members when using car-share 
vehicles and shall assume responsibility for maintaining car-share vehicles. 

A certified car-share organization must provide a car-share service as defined by Planning Code Section 
166(b)(1). The following table demonstrates how Getaround (Instant ONLY) does or does not meet those 
characteristics. 

Car-Share Characteristic Requirements 
A.  Member-based service, where such service is available to members only. 

Additional demonstration of membership may include annual or monthly 
membership fees, or membership cards. 

Met/Unmet 

Getaround is a member-based service, accessible only to those who create an 
account through their website, via the Getaround app, or by contacting their 24/7 
multilingual customer support team by phone or email. Members must provide a 
valid driver’s license and a credit card. Getaround does not charge a membership 
fee. 

Met 

2  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eric Rago 
Getaround, Inc. 
55 Green Street 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 30, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Getaround, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

B. 

Vehicles are available to members at unstaffed locations only, and members 
access vehicles without interacting with staff or filling out paperwork for each 
car usage. 

In order to use a Getaround vehicle, members must make a reservation through 
the website, app, or by contacting their 24/7 multilingual customer support team 
by phone or email.  

C. 

Vehicles are accessible to members at all times, 24 hours per day, seven days 
per week. 

Getaround’s Public Car Share Program vehicles are placed at locations where 
they can be accessed 24 hours per day, seven days per week.  

E. 

Vehicles are available for reservation at least on an hourly basis, or at smaller 
intervals. 

Getaround provides hourly rates and reservations may be as short as one hour. In 
order to use a Getaround vehicle, members must make a reservation through the 
website, app, or by contacting their 24/7 multilingual customer support team by 
phone or email. 

Met 

Met 

Met 

F. 

Vehicles shall be branded by the car-share organization in order to make them 
easily recognizable, and distinguishable from its peer-to-peer vehicles. 

Met 

Getaround’s Public Car Share Program vehicles will be appropriately branded to 
be distinguished from their peer-to-peer vehicles.   

G.  Car-share service must provide insurance and maintenance of the vehicle fleet 

as part of membership at no extra charge. 

Each Getaround reservation includes insurance coverage for renters for the 
duration of each rental, from start to finish, and includes liability, collision and 
comprehensive (e.g., fire, auto theft, vandalism) coverage. Getaround also ensures 
that the vehicles are well-maintained. 

Met 

Based on the information referenced above, Getaround’s service and operations meet the requirements of a car-
share service pursuant to Planning Code Section 166(b)(1). 

Car-Share Organization Certification  
To qualify as a certified car-share organization, a car-share organization shall submit a written report (i.e. a Car-
sharing Certification Study) prepared by an independent third party academic institution or transportation 

3  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eric Rago 
Getaround, Inc. 
55 Green Street 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 30, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Getaround, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

consulting firm that clearly demonstrates, based on a statistically significant analysis of quantitative data, that 
such car-sharing service has achieved two or more of the following environmental performance goals in any 
market where they have operated for at least two years: (A) lower household automobile ownership among 
members than the market area's general population; (B) lower annual vehicle miles traveled per member 
household than the market area's general population; (C) lower annual vehicle emissions per member 
household than the market area's general population; and (D) higher rates of transit usage, walking, bicycling 
and other non-automobile modes of transportation usage for commute trips among members than the market 
area's general population. The Zoning Administrator shall only approve certification of a car-share organization if 
the Planning Department concludes that the Certification Study is technically accurate and clearly demonstrates 
that the car-share organization has achieved two or more of the above environmental performance goals during 
a two-year period of operation. 

Getaround provided a report (attached) from CHS Consulting Group, a transportation planning and 
transportation engineering firm headquartered in San Francisco, demonstrating the benefits of Getaround’s 
Instant Program based on a quantitative analysis. The Instant program’s fleet size to more than 2,000 vehicles. It 
is in CHS Consulting Group’s professional opinion that Getaround’s Instant program achieved the goals listed for 
a Certified Car-share Organization. Their opinion is based on quantitative studies conducted on the previously 
active City CarShare program and currently active Zipcar company, who both share in similar operation’s 
models. Both City Carshare and Zipcar became Certified Car-share Organizations per Planning Code Section 
166(b)(1). Considering the similarities between the previous Instant program and current Public Car Share 
Program, this report remains adequate for the purposes of Planning Code Section 166. 

Determination 
Based upon the information you provided, as well as the fact that Getaround’s Public Car Share Program meets 
all the characteristics of a car-share service similar to other Certified Car-Share Organizations in San Francisco, it 
is  my  determination  that  Getaround’s  Public  Car  Share  Program  meets  the  minimum  criteria  necessary  for 
certification per Section 166(b). Therefore, only Getaround’s Public Car Share Program is designated as a “Certified 
Car-Share Organization,” which does not include the use of any peer-to-peer vehicles on Getaround’ platform. 
Additionally, given the nature of its more standard peer-to-peer model, Getaround must submit an annual report 
to the Zoning Administrator that 1) lists the location of Getaround Public Car Share Program vehicles in spaces 
that are required by the City (i.e., Sec. 166, Planning Commission conditions, TDM Program measures, etc.), and 2) 
provides documentation that such spaces have only been used by Public Car Share Program vehicles, and not 
peer-to-peer vehicles. This report must be submitted no later than January 31st of each year, until and unless the 
Zoning Administrator authorizes an alternative reporting requirement.  

Finally, this determination also serves to decertify City CarShare as a Certified Car-Share Organization.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 

4  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Eric Rago 
Getaround, Inc. 
55 Green Street 
San Francisco, CA 94111 

March 30, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Getaround, Inc. – Car-Share Certification 

Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Citywide Neighborhood Groups 

5  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
