Letter of Determination 

January 14, 2022 

Ahmad Mohazab RA, NCARB, LEED AP 
Tecta Associates 
2747 19th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

Record No.: 
Name:  
Site Address:  
Staff Contact:  

2021-008249ZAD 
Gorillas 
No Address Specified 
N/A  

Dear Ahmad Mohazab: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the application of the Planning 
Code’s Formula Retail Use regulations (Planning Code Section 303.1). The request does not seek a determination 
about  the  applicability  of  Section  303.1  to  a  specific  property,  but  rather  generally  seeks  confirmation  of  the 
application of Section 303.1 as it relates to Gorillas, an online grocery delivery company.  

Background 
As stated in your letter, Gorillas is an online grocery delivery platform that delivers goods using e-bikes and is 
currently in operation in multiple locations in Europe and the US (primarily New York). Based upon the description 
contained in your initial request, which describes the use as “a delivery service, rather than establishment of retail 
outlets,” you were informed that this use would be classified as a Parcel Delivery Service. Planning Code Section 
102 defines Parcel Delivery Service as follows: 

Service, Parcel Delivery. A  Non-Retail  Automotive  Use  limited  to  facilities  for  the  unloading,  sorting,  and 
reloading  of  local  retail  merchandise  for  deliveries,  including  but  not  limited  to  cannabis  and  cannabis 
products, where the operation is conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, including garage 
facilities for local delivery trucks, but excluding repair shop facilities. Where permitted in PDR Districts, this 
use is not required to be operated within a completely enclosed building. 

In a subsequent letter on September 20, 2021 and in additional email correspondence, the description of the 
proposed use evolved. You stated that there “is no question that Delivery is a focus of Gorillas in specific…, but 
to mitigate the delivery-only notion of the Parcel Delivery Service designation, Gorillas is redefining their concept 
for the San Francisco Market. In recognition of the fact that San Francisco is a pedestrian-heavy environment, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Ahmad Mohazab RA, NCARB, LEED AP 
Tecta Associates 
2747 19th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

January 14, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Gorillas 

and given that the locations desired primarily are in the Neighborhoods, Gorillas will be providing a customer 
friendly in store shopping/pickup experience in their local locations. Customers are able to come into the 
location, order by app or interact with staff and purchase from a menu of product.” 

The grocery store would be open to the public during regular business hours. Further, the merchandise that is 
available on-site to the general public will be the same that is offered for delivery from that location. The general 
public will be able to order online for delivery, pre-order for in-store pickup, or shop in-store in a standard retail 
manner with checkout by a cashier. Planning Code Section 102 defines General Grocery as follows: 

Grocery, General.   A Retail Sales and Services Use that: 

(a) Offers  a  diverse  variety  of  unrelated,  non-complementary  food  and  non-food  commodities,  such  as
beverages, dairy, dry goods, fresh produce and other perishable items, frozen foods, household products, and 
paper goods; 

(b) May provide beer, wine, and/or liquor sales for consumption off the premises with a California Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board License type 20 (off-sale beer and wine) or type 21 (off-sale general) that occupy less 
than 15% of the Occupied Floor Area of the establishment (including all areas devoted to the display and sale 
of alcoholic beverages); 

(c) May prepare minor amounts of food on site for immediate consumption;
(d) Markets the majority of its merchandise at retail prices; and
(e) Shall operate with the specified conditions in Section 202.2(a)(1).
(f) Such businesses require Conditional Use authorization for conversion of a General Grocery use greater

than 5,000 square feet, pursuant to Section 202.3 and 303(l). 

Pursuant to Planning Code Section 303.1(c), General Grocery uses are subject to the Formula Retail Use controls. 
Any General Grocery with 11 or more other retail sales establishments in operation, or with local land use or permit 
entitlements already approved, located anywhere in the world is considered to be a Formula Retail Use if those 
locations maintain two or more of the following features: a standardized array of merchandise, a standardized 
façade,  a  standardized  décor  and  color  scheme,  uniform  apparel,  standardized  signage,  a  trademark  or  a 
servicemark. 

Determination 
Based upon the supplemental information provided in support of your request, including test fit floor plans and 
renderings, the proposed use would be classified as a General Grocery use. Pursuant to Planning Code Section 
303.1, Gorillas would be considered a Formular Retail Use if it operates at least 11 other establishments that also 
operate in a retail manner that is open to the public. Gorillas locations that operate as a Parcel Delivery Service 
will not count towards the Formula Retail Use determination.  

Please  note  that  this  determination  is  based  solely  on  the  information  provided.  Any  specific  authorization 
required to establish such a use will be reviewed at that time based on the specifics of such proposal and will be 
subject to all applicable Planning Code requirements and CEQA review. Additionally, considering Gorillas’ primary 
model  is  delivery-only,  any  Grocery  Store  established  by  Gorillas  may  be  subject  to  periodic  monitoring  and 
reporting to ensure consistent compliance with the Planning Code as a Grocery Store instead of a Parcel Delivery 
Service.   

2 

Ahmad Mohazab RA, NCARB, LEED AP 
Tecta Associates 
2747 19th Street 
San Francisco, CA 94110 

January 14, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Gorillas 

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Citywide Mailing List 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
