Letter of Determination 

June 4, 2021 

John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600  
San Francisco, CA 94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Subject: 
Staff Contact:  

Dear John Kevlin: 

2021-003968ZAD  
None 
Mission Barns 
Scott F. Sanchez, or scott.sanchez@sfgov.org  

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding the proper use classification for a 
proposed facility operated by Mission Barns. The request seeks a confirmation that the subject use is a “non-life 
science laboratory use” and does not seek a determination about whether the use would be allowed at a specific 
property. 

Background 
As stated in your letter, “Mission Barns is focused on developing better alternative meat products by creating a 
scalable way to make animal fats – without the animal. It starts with vegetable-derived food ingredients, and adds 
to them animal fats cultivated from a handful of pork, poultry, or beef cells which are compositionally similar to 
lard. Those cells are harvested and fed a plant-based feedstock inside a proprietary ‘bioreactor,’ which mimics 
conditions inside an animal’s body by regulating temperature, gas access, and nutrient access (e.g. vitamins, fats, 
and proteins). After the cells fatten, they are harvested from the bioreactor and stabilized in the plant-based matrix 
by temperature-controlled mixing.”  

The processes and technologies used by Mission Barns are still in development and have not been approved by 
the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). As such, these products are not yet commercially available.  

Your request states that Mission Barns is “currently seeking a new facility within San Francisco to be used in refining 
its scientific process and prototyping technologies.” While the proposed facility would include pilot manufacturing 
elements, these would be devoted to analytical work for research and development of the product as well as the 
means  and  methods  of  production.  The  proposed  facility  “would  not  produce  final  commercial  products  or 
services on-site” and any such commercial production would occur at a separate facility. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600  
San Francisco, CA 94104 

June 4, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
Mission Barns 

Planning Code Definitions 
As noted in your letters, the Planning Code contains definitions for Laboratory and Life Science uses. 

Planning Code Section 102 defines Laboratory as follows: 

Laboratoryʏ A Non-Retail Sales and Services Use intended or primarily suitable for scientific research. The 
space requirements of uses within this category include specialized facilities and/or built accommodations 
that  distinguish  the  space  from  Office  uses,  Light  Manufacturing,  or  Heavy  Manufacturing.  Examples  of 
laboratories include the following: 
   (a)   Chemistry, biochemistry, or analytical laboratory; 
   (b)   Engineering laboratory; 
   (c)   Development laboratory; 
   (d)   Biological laboratories including those classified by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) as Biosafety level 1, Biosafety level 2, or Biosafety level 3; 
   (e)   Animal facility or vivarium, including laboratories classified by the CDC/NIH as Animal Biosafety level 
1, Animal Biosafety level 2, or Animal Biosafety level 3; 
   (f)   Support laboratory; 
   (g)   Quality assurance/Quality control laboratory; 
   (h)   Core laboratory; and 
   (i)   Cannabis testing facility (any use requiring License Type 8—Testing Laboratory, as defined in California 
Business and Professions Code, Division 10). 

Planning Code Section 102 defines Life Science use as follows: 

Life Scienceʏ A Non-Retail Sales and Service Use that involves the integration of natural and engineering 
sciences  and  advanced  biological  techniques  using  organisms,  cells,  and  parts thereof  for  products  and 
services. This includes the creation of products and services used to analyze and detect various illnesses, the 
design  of  products  that  cure  illnesses,  and/or  the  provision  of  capital  goods  and  services,  machinery, 
instruments, software, and reagents related to research and production. Life Science uses may utilize office, 
laboratory,  light  manufacturing,  or  other  types  of  space.  As  a  subset  of  Life  Science  uses,  Life  Science 
laboratories  typically  include  biological  laboratories  and  animal  facilities  or  vivaria,  as  described  in  the 
Laboratory definition Subsections (d) and (e). 

On November 6, 2020, a Letter of Determination was issued that clarified the characteristics of, and distinctions 
between,  Life  Science  and  Laboratory  uses  as  defined  in  Planning  Code  Section  102  (this  determination  was 
referenced in your request and included as an attachment). That determination found that a use must involve the 
production of final, commercial products or the provision of commercial services on-site to be classified as a Life 
Science use and that such on-site activities are generally integral to the definition of Life Science.  

Determination 
Based upon the information provided in your request letter and supplementary materials, it is my determination 
that the proposed Mission Barns facility is a Laboratory use as defined in Planning Code Section 102. This is due 
to its focus on analytical work for research and development of the product as well as the means and methods of 
production.  While  the  proposed  facility  includes  “the  integration  of  natural  and  engineering  sciences  and 
advanced biological techniques using organisms, cells, and parts thereof,” it does not include production of final, 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Kevlin 
Reuben, Junius & Rose, LLP 
One Bush Street, Suite 600  
San Francisco, CA 94104 

June 4, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
Mission Barns 

commercial products or the provision of commercial services on-site. As such, it is classified as a Laboratory, not 
a  Life  Science  use.  Should the  proposed  facility  provide  such  on-site  activities,  it  would  be  classified  as  a  Life 
Science use.  

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Citywide Neighborhood Groups 
Scott Sanchez, Deputy Zoning Administrator 

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
