Letter of Determination 

June 16, 2021 

Paul B. Albritton 
Mackenzie & Albritton LLP 
155 Sansome Street, Suite 800  
San Francisco, CA  94104 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2021-003477ZAD 
Verizon Wireless – Section 6409 of the Spectrum Act of 2012 
N/A 
N/A 
Kalyani Agnihotri – 628-652-7454, kalyani.agnihotri@sfgov.org 

Dear Mr.  Albritton: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination on behalf of Verizon Wireless regarding the 
applicability  of  Section  6409 of  the  Spectrum  Act  to  applications  under  the  Planning  Code  to  modify  existing, 
permitted Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facilities. The request seeks confirmation of the following: 
1)  the    Planning  Department’s  Application  process  for  all  Section  6409  requests;  2)  whether  an  entitlement 
(Certificate of Appropriateness, Minor Permit to Alter, or Conditional Use Authorization) is required; and 3) the 
submittal requirements for Section 6409 Applications. 

The Planning Department has outlined its application process and the submittal requirements for Section 6409 
applications below.  

What is an “Eligible Facilities Request? 
Under regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC),1 an Eligible Facilities 
Request (EFR) is a request for modification of an existing tower or base station that does not substantially change 
the physical dimensions of such tower or base station, typically involving: 

• 
• 
• 

collocation of new transmission equipment;  
removal of transmission equipment; or  
replacement of transmission equipment. 

Section 6409 provides that “a State or local government may not deny, and  shall approve, any eligible facilities 
request for a modification of an existing wireless tower or base station that does not substantially change the 
physical dimensions of such tower or base station.”2  

1 See 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(3). 
2 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)(1). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paul B. Albritton 
Mackenzie & Albritton LLP 
155 Sansome Street, Suite 800  
San Francisco, CA  94104 

June 16, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
Verizon Wireless – Section 6409 of the Spectrum Act 

The  Planning  Department  considers  an  existing  wireless  facility  for  purposes  of  Section  6409  as  a  Macro  WTS 
Facility3 that is principally permitted in a Commercial zoning district or conditionally authorized in a Neighborhood 
Commercial or Residential zoning district. A Micro WTS Facility4 is deemed as an accessory use to the principally 
or conditionally permitted use in a zoning district and is not considered an “existing wireless tower or base station” 
for the purposes of Section 6409.  

Application and Review Process (see attached EFR Workflow) 

•  A Building Permit Application (BPA) is required to approve an EFR. 
•  The process for an EFR is ministerial in nature.  
•  The sponsor must include the attached EFR Checklist in its BPA submittal, in addition to the materials 
listed in the section below entitled “Application Materials required for EFR”. The proposed scope of work 
must satisfy the requirement that the proposed modification would not consist of a substantial change to 
the physical dimensions of the existing wireless tower or base station as the phrase is defined in the FCC 
regulations5 and Eligibility Requirements list below. 
The BPA must be submitted to the Department of Building Inspection as a “Form 8” permit, which is an 
over-the-counter (OTC) alteration permit. In addition to review by the Department of Building Inspection, 
the permit will also be reviewed by the Planning Department, Fire Department and Department of Public 
Health. The City’s standard OTC review process will be followed to review EFR applications.  
The Planning Department will review the BPA to verify whether it meets the Eligibility Requirements listed 
below. If the application meets the Eligibility Requirements, Planning will approve the application as an 
OTC approval and the application will be routed to the other City agencies for further review.  

• 

• 

Eligibility Requirements for EFRs – Substantial Change Constraints 

CRITERIA 
Height 
Width 
Equipment cabinets 

Excavation 
Concealment 
Compliance with prior permit 
conditions 

BASE STATIONS  
10 feet or 10% of existing height 
6 feet 

TOWERS 
20 feet or 10% of existing height 
20 ft or tower width 
Installation  of  more  than  the  standard  number  of  new  equipment 
cabinets for the technology involved; 4 maximum  
New  ground  cabinets  if  no  pre-existing  ground  cabinets  installed  OR 
ground  cabinets  that  are  >  10%  in  height  / overall  volume  of  existing 
ground cabinets. 
Within leased or owned area 
Cannot defeat existing concealment elements 
Changes must comply with all prior conditions except limits on height, 
width, number of equipment cabinets or excavation 

Within leased or owned area 

3 See San Francisco Planning Code Section 102 Definitions, Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facility, Macro 
4 See San Francisco Planning Code Section 102 Definitions, Wireless Telecommunications Services (WTS) Facility, Micro 
5 See 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7). 

2  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paul B. Albritton 
Mackenzie & Albritton LLP 
155 Sansome Street, Suite 800  
San Francisco, CA  94104 

June 16, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
Verizon Wireless – Section 6409 of the Spectrum Act 

Review Timeline and Process: The City has 30 days to provide notice of incompleteness of EFR applications 

•  The City has 60 days for approval or denial of EFR applications 
•  The  sponsor  may  drop-in  to  the  City’s  Permit  Center  to  submit  an  over-the-counter  permit  with  no 
appointment, between the hours of 9:30AM and 11:30AM, Monday through Friday. Each sponsor is limited 
to one application per visit.  

•  The sponsor must submit the BPA, EFR, and all “Application Materials required for EFR” identified below 

during the drop-in visit in order to submit a complete over-the-counter permit. 

•  City Departments will make best efforts to review the application materials and either approve the permit 
or issue one or more notices of incompleteness within one business day. However, the City reserves the 
right to utilize up to 30 days to issue a notice of incompleteness and up to 60 days to complete its review 
of the application as allowed under FCC regulations.  

•  The sponsor may resubmit additional information requested by the City at any time for further over-the-

counter review. 

Application Materials Required for EFR: The City requires the following documents be provided in conjunction with 
all BPA that consist of EFRs: 

•  Form 8 Alteration Permit 
•  Two  sets  of  architectural  plans,  including  structural  plans/calculations  as  deemed  necessary  by  the 

Department of Building Inspection. 

•  EFR Checklist 
•  Photo simulations 
•  Radio frequency report 
•  DPH radio frequency approval letter 
•  Declaration  of  Intent  for  Section  106  Review  for  sites  in  Article  10  or  11  Landmark  and  Conservation 

Districts 

•  Proof that the existing site was legally installed and can be deemed an “existing wireless tower or base 

station”. The following documents are acceptable as proof:  
•  Planning Commission approval motions and plans,  
•  Copies of approved building permit plans, and/or 
•  Copies of Certificates of Final Completion from the Department of Building Inspection, etc. 

Please  note  that  a  Letter  of  Determination  is  a  determination  regarding  the  classification  of  uses  and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

3  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paul B. Albritton 
Mackenzie & Albritton LLP 
155 Sansome Street, Suite 800  
San Francisco, CA  94104 

June 16, 2021 
Letter of Determination 
Verizon Wireless – Section 6409 of the Spectrum Act 

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the Zoning 
Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call (628) 652-
1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.  

Sincerely, 

Scott F. Sanchez 
Acting Zoning Administrator 

cc:   

Mackenzie & Albritton LLP 
William Sanders, Deputy City Attorney  
Rich Hillis, Director of SF Planning Department 
Patrick O’Riordan, Interim Director, Department of Building inspection 
Dr. Grant Colfax, Director, Department of Public Health 

Attachments:  Eligible Facilities Request Workflow 
            Eligible Facilities Request Checklist 

4  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
