Letter of Determination 

September 14, 2022 

Evelyn Yee 
Fuji, Inc. 
5988 Newpark Mall 
Newark, CA 94560  
(email:  evelyn@enjoyfuji.com) 

Record No.: 
Site Address:  
Assessor’s Block/Lot: 
Zoning District: 
Staff Contact:  

2022-005891ZAD 
Zero& and Outset Coffee (Not Latte)– Formula Retail Use 
N/A 
N/A 
Tina Tam- tina.tam@sfgov.org  

Dear Evelyn Yee: 

This letter is in response to your request for a Letter of Determination regarding two limited restaurant uses, 
Zero& and Outset Coffee.  Per your request letter, the Fuji Inc food and beverage company includes two separate 
beverage brands: Zero& (tea) and Outset Coffee (coffee). The request seeks confirmation of whether each 
separate establishment could operate 10 individual locations without them being classified as a single Formula 
Retail use.  

Planning Code Section 102 defines Limited Restaurant as “a retail sales and service use that serves ready-to-eat 
foods and/or drinks to customers for consumption on or off the premises, that may or may not having 
seating…It includes, but is not limited to foods provided by sandwich shops, coffee houses, pizzerias, ice cream 
shops, bakeries, delicatessens, and confectioneries…”  Given the information provided for Zero& and Outset 
Coffee, these are beverage and snack shops that meet the definition for Limited Restaurants. Whereas Zero& 
offers primarily fruit drinks and teas with various toppings (boba, jelly, and aloe) along with sweet and savory 
pastries, Outset Coffee offers primarily fruit-infused coffee drinks as well as sweet and savory pastries. 

Planning Code Section 303.1 defines Formula Retail as “a type of retail sales or service establishment that has 
eleven or more other retail sales establishment in operation, or with local land use or permit entitlements 
already approved, located anywhere in the world. In addition to the eleven establishments either in operation or 
with local land use or permit entitlements approved for operation, the business maintains two or more of the 

Evelyn Yee 
Fuji, Inc. 
5988 Newpark Mall 
Newark, CA 94560  

September 14, 2022 
Letter of Determination 
Zero& and Outset – Formula Retail Use 
2022-005891ZAD 

follow features: a standardized array of merchandise, a standardized façade, a standardized décor and color 
scheme, uniform, apparel, standardized signage, a trademark or a servicemark.”   

Based upon the information you provided for Zero& and Outset Coffee, these two businesses do not appear to 
share the same standardized array of merchandise, standardized façade, standardized décor and color scheme, 
uniform, apparel, standardized signage, trademark or servicemark. Therefore, it is my determination that Zero& 
and Outset Coffee may each operate 10 separate locations without being considered the same Formula Retail 
use, even if they are both owned by Fuji Inc.  

However, please be aware that both Zero& and Outset Coffee each independently meet the criteria for a Formula 
Retail use outlined in Planning Code Section 303.1. As such, each establishment would be individually 
designated as a Formula Retail use and subject to applicable Planning Code controls if they have eleven or more 
other retail sales establishment in operation, or with local land use or permit entitlements already approved, 
located anywhere in the world. As such, any building permit filed to establish either use must also include an 
Affidavit for Formula Retail Establishments, which may be found on the Planning Department website.  

Please note that a Letter of Determination is a determination regarding the classification of uses and 
interpretation and applicability of the provisions of the Planning Code. This Letter of Determination is not 
a permit to commence any work or change occupancy. Permits from appropriate Departments must be 
secured before work is started or occupancy is changed.  

APPEAL:  An appeal may be filed with the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the date of this letter if you believe 
this determination represents an error in interpretation of the Planning Code or abuse in discretion by the 
Zoning Administrator. Please contact the Board of Appeals in person at 49 South Van Ness Ave, Suite 1475, call 
(628) 652-1150, or visit www.sfgov.org/bdappeal.

Sincerely, 

Corey A. Teague, AICP 
Zoning Administrator 

cc:  

Tina Tam, Planning Department 
Neighborhood Groups 

2 

